---
product: media-composer
product-area: editing
version: "2024.12.1"
release-date: 01/12/2024
doc-type: readme
source: pdf
confidentiality: public
date-added: 14/05/2026
status: current
---

Fixed in Media Composer v2024.12.1 Avid Media Composer® ReadMe for Version 2024.12.1 Fixed in Media Composer v2024.12.1 The following have been fixed for all applicable models of Media Composer in this update (First, Standard, Ultimate, and Enterprise):
Bug Number: MCCET-5773. Subcaps created in earlier versions of Media Composer could change appearance if opened in later versions.
Bug Number: MCCET-5563. After selecting multiple items in a bin, clicking on an item did not deselect remaining items.
Bug Number: MCCET-5761. In some instances, Matte Key clips were offline with Dynamic Relink enabled.
Bug Number: MCCET-5853. "Allow Mixed Frame Rate Media" checkbox in the Dynamic Relink settings was not consistently applied from Site Settings.
Bug Number: MCCET-5842. Bin icon did not update for linked clips when they were consolidated.
Bug Number: MCCET-5715. Group and MultiGroup clips in a sequence did not always refresh properly after an update.
Bug Number: MCCET-5855. "SPFPlayConsumer::Execute TIMEOUT Monitor Exception" error encountered after playback of some XDCAM HD 35 media.
Bug Number: MCCET-4813. In some instances, markers shifted in a timeline that contained Group clips and mixed frame rates.
Bug Number: MCCET-5856. Error was encountered after closing Media Composer when connected to iNEWS via the NRCS tool.
Bug Number: MCCET-5847. In some instances, performance issues were encountered while using MultiCamera mode.
Bug Number: MCCET-5865. When importing an AAF, users were prompted to "Please choose an import resolution", even if media matched the current project resolution.
Fixed in Media Composer v2024.12.1 Bug Number: MCCET-5413. "Assertion failed" error was encountered after importing an AAF and previewing the output for Columnar or TabbedLists using the List Tool.
Bug Number: MCCET-5800. Using a semicolon in the name of a new sequence template caused multiple sequence templates to be created, in addition to a possible error if selected.
Bug Number: MCCET-5508. Sequence names containing underscores did not appear correctly at the bottom of the Timeline window.
Bug Number: MCCET-5630. In some instances, errors were encountered after using Auto Contrast in the Color Correction panel.
Bug Number: MCCET-5582. Increasing or decreasing timecode values by one frame increments did not work with an edit timebase of 50 fps.
Bug Number: MCCET-5587. Find Script button did not work for Group or MultiGroup clips.
Bug Number: MCCET-5797. Audio peak meters did not refresh during playback of a long sequence if the Transcript Tool contained a long transcript and was opened.
Bug Number: MCCET-5664. Client monitors connected with an AJA I/O device did not update to reflect changes in the Effect Editor.
Bug Number: MCCET-5342. LTC timecode for Blackmagic Design I/O devices was out of sync with the timecode for sequences in a 24p project.
Bug Number: MCCET-5352. Audio channels in the Audio Mixer were out of order if the Output for Audio Project Settings was set to "Direct, surround tracks in Pro Tools".
Bug Number: MCCET-5612. Only a single character was displayed for text prediction while typing Speaker IDs into the Transcript Tool on a Japanese language system.
Bug Number: MCCET-5645. In some instances, using a Splice-in edit caused an "Assertion failed" error, which prevented bins from saving.
Bug Number: MCCET-5707. Composer window did not redraw properly and used an incorrect color space if set to Show Single Monitor while Tracking was used.
Bug Number: MCCET-5720. Avid Media Composer Activation window was displayed, every time the application started, if an Ultimate Floating license was set on the license server.
Bug Number: MCCET-5739. In some instances, the PDF generated by choosing to Print Markers contained incorrect headings and extra padding for images.
Fixed in Media Composer v2024.12.1 Bug Number: MCCET-5784. Playhead position jumped back to previous position after pausing playback and using keyboard shortcuts for trimming.
Bug Number: MCCET-5805. Moving bins in or out of the root directory caused Media Composer to lock up.
Bug Number: MCCET-5854. Titles could not be saved with the legacy Marquee or Title Tool.
Bug Number: MCCET-5859. In some instances, the PDF generated by choosing to Print Markers contained mismatched column names and data.
Bug Number: MCCET-5860. Group clips created with Waveform Analysis were out of sync.
Bug Number: MCCET-5862. Drop-frame "timecode for first frame" of a sequence was lost if exporting to an XDCAM disc using the Sony PDW-U2.
Bug Number: MCCET-5872. New markers were not automatically sorted in the correct order in the Markers window.
Bug Number: MCCET-5873. Comment text in the Markers window did not wrap properly.
Bug Number: MCCET-5894. Timeline performance was sluggish for Intel Macs.
Bug Number: MCCET-5837. Attempting a Bulk Edit with a custom profile caused Media Composer to crash if the required bin column was missing.
Bug Number: MCCET-5788. Some audio track panning information was incorrect in Pro Tools Sessions exported from Media Composer.
Bug Number: MCCET-5781. Exporting a short sequence to AAF took a long time, while the status window reported "Gathering AAF Dependencies".
Bug Number: MCCET-5556. When source clips had a different aspect ratio than the project, grouped clips did not maintain FrameFlex settings and were squeezed after mixdown to XDCAM HD 50Mbits MXF.
Bug Number: MCCET-5316. In some instances, Send to Playback skipped clips and left black space, depending on Dynamic Relink settings and the resolutions used in a sequence.
Limitations Limitations The following are known limitations:
Photoshop PSD files are not supported for AMA linking if QuickTime is not installed.
- Some fonts, by their design, are only available in Bold. On macOS systems, selecting a font does
- not always produce a visual change; try selecting “Bold.”
- If you launch a project and receive an “Enable 3rd Party Emulation” warning, even if you select
Enable in the warning dialog, you should also perform the following: Select File > Settings and click the Project tab. Click General Settings and select “Enable Bin Sharing on 3rd party storage emulating Avid NEXIS/ISIS.” Bug Number: MCCET-5929. Intel Mac systems might exhibit reduced performance compared to Apple Silicon systems due to framework modernization designed for native Apple Silicon support. Although performance enhancements were introduced in version 2024.12, Intel-based hardware does not benefit from the same level of optimization as Apple Silicon machines.
> **Note:** This performance difference is due to the optimization for Apple Silicon, rather than an issue that can
be addressed through further development. Avid remains committed to supporting Intel Mac systems in current versions of Media Composer.
Limitations