---
product: media-composer
product-area: editing
version: "2023.8"
release-date: 01/08/2023
doc-type: new-features
source: pdf
confidentiality: public
date-added: 14/05/2026
status: current
---

New in Media Composer v2023.8 What’s New for Avid® Media Composer® v2023.8 New in Media Composer v2023.8 The following are new for Media Composer v2023.8:
• AI-Enhanced ScriptSync and PhraseFind (cid:129) Media Composer Classic User Profile and Workspace (cid:129) Panel SDK (cid:129) Audio Punch-in Using USB Audio Devices with Video Hardware (cid:129) Batch Subclip Tool (cid:129) Display Middle Composer Button Panel (cid:129) Changing Monitor Configuration Duplicates Current Workspaces (cid:129) Apply Sequence Template to an Existing Sequence (cid:129) Keyboard Shortcuts Added to Command Button Tooltips (cid:129) Clip Gain Extended to 36 dB in Media Composer (cid:129) “LFE Only” Mono Tracks (cid:129) Track Effect Bypass (cid:129) Device Selection for Desktop Audio Output (cid:129) Multi-Mix Tool Options Added to Pro Tools Session Export Settings (cid:129) GOP Options Added to XDCAM Export to Device (cid:129) Optimized EDL with Four Audio Tracks AI-Enhanced ScriptSync and PhraseFind ScriptSync AI and PhraseFind AI have added new capabilities with a significant technology preview, including the creation of transcripts using the PhraseFind AI engine. These capabilities are available in Media Composer | Ultimate, Media Composer | Enterprise, and any perpetual or subscription Media Composer with the PhraseFind and/or ScriptSync option (purchased separately).
With the new "Create Script from Clip" feature, simply right-click on one or more selected clips in a bin and choose “Create Script from Clip” to begin analyzing and indexing all audible dialog. After transcribing your clip, the Script window appears with the text automatically aligned to your media.
Just click a line of text to jump to its corresponding location.
> **Note:** ScriptSync AI and PhraseFind AI do not require an Internet connection. All processing is done on
your local system and no customer data is used by Avid to improve results.
> **Note:** Currently, 21 languages are supported, although the underlying engine will work with more.
AI-Enhanced ScriptSync and PhraseFind
> **Note:** Scripts are the lined, text items that users can import, sync, and edit with ScriptSync AI, while
transcripts are the text items created from clips and stored in a database using PhraseFind AI. With the “Create Script from Clip” operation, transcripts are referenced to generate lined scripts, which appear in the Script window.
Open the Find window, enter a keyword or phrase, and click on the PhraseFind AI button to search indexed transcripts and match them to an item in your project. Each result is presented with a “Score”, which indicates the level of confidence in matching the search term and includes closely related findings, such as misspellings.
AI-Enhanced ScriptSync and PhraseFind In addition, a “Transcription” column has been added to the Find window, which conveniently presents information found using PhraseFind AI. To view the full contents of a field in the Transcription column, double-click the separator (dividing line) between the adjacent column to its right. Double-clicking in the Transcription column also takes you to its corresponding location in a clip, similar to the Script window.
> **Note:** When searching for numbers in a transcription, use Arabic numerals (e.g. 100) instead of spelling
them out with text (e.g. one hundred).
Transcripts are stored in a central database for projects and their entries can be deleted using a new window. Click on the gear icon in the lower-left corner of the Find window and choose “Manage Transcripts” to select and delete transcripts from specific projects. You can also access this feature using the Script menu.
Media Composer Classic User Profile and Workspace
> **Note:** Transcripts created with 2023.8 are not compatible with older versions of Media Composer.
However, older scripts, which have already been created, will migrate without an issue.
> **Note:** Proxy media is not indexed by PhraseFind AI when running Avid NEXIS | EDGE.
Media Composer Classic User Profile and Workspace The new “Media Composer Classic” user profile brings forward some UI elements and settings from previous versions of Media Composer, such as v2018. These additions acknowledge the preferences of editors using legacy software and help facilitate the transition to the newest version of Media Composer. Changes include floating instead of paneled windows, as well as Composer and Timeline toolbars that are similar to legacy versions.
Panel SDK With the new Panel SDK (software development kit), Media Composer is now more open than ever to third-party integration via a set of APIs (application programming interfaces) for customers and technology partners.
Audio Punch-in Using USB Audio Devices with Video Hardware It is now possible to use a USB audio device as an input source for audio punch-in while video output hardware is in use. Both audio and video playback from separate devices will remain in sync. When using the HW/SW switch, the “Desktop Audio” checkbox is now available, even when Blackmagic Design or AJA devices are already selected.
> **Note:** To maintain sync over longer durations, audio and video hardware should reference the same clock
source.
Batch Subclip Tool Batch Subclip Tool Introducing a new Batch Subclip tool that allows you to easily adjust options for the subclips you want to create from a master clip, such as track selection and adding or removing of frames from generated subclips. To activate the new tool, right-click on selected clips and choose “Batch Create Subclips”.
Display Middle Composer Button Panel In addition to its use in the “Media Composer Classic” user profile, the option to “Display middle Composer button panel” is available to all users of Media Composer by checking its box in the or 6 button panel is displayed between the Source and Record monitors, depending on the number of button rows enabled for the Composer window.
Changing Monitor Configuration Duplicates Current Workspaces Changing Monitor Configuration Duplicates Current Workspaces When changing the number of monitors in your editing setup, Media Composer asks if you want to duplicate your current settings. If selected, Media Composer automatically creates a new, matching workspace based on the active workspace. This new behavior preserves your current window layouts as much as possible. Previously, Media Composer created a default workspace and reset your window positions.
Apply Sequence Template to an Existing Sequence Automatically update your existing sequence to match delivery requirements by changing the format, track layout and names, while leaving other attributes intact. Right-click in a sequence and choose “Apply Sequence Template” from the context menu to update your sequence using the selected template.
Keyboard Shortcuts Added to Command Button Tooltips Keyboard Shortcuts Added to Command Button Tooltips Discover new keyboard shortcuts and speed up your workflow by hovering over a tool to see the corresponding command. Previously, only the name of the tool was displayed.
Clip Gain Extended to 36 dB in Media Composer The clip gain range has been extended from a maximum of 12 dB to 36 dB, which aligns Media Composer with Pro Tools and assists users working with clips recorded at low audio levels. These new values are maintained when importing and exporting AAF and Pro Tools Sessions. However, clip gain values >12 dB will reset to 0 dB if opened in an older version of Media Composer that does not support the extended range. Also, importing an AAF with clip gain between 12 dB and 36 dB maintains those levels, while importing an AAF with clip gain >36 dB sets the clip gain to 36 dB.
> **Note:** Manual sliders, whether on-screen or on external controllers, will only extend to 12 dB, which means
higher values must be typed. Keyboard shortcuts will also continue past 12 dB.
> **Note:** If a fader is grabbed or moved, it will return to a value of 12 dB or less.
“LFE Only” Mono Tracks You can achieve >12 dB clip gain in the following ways:
(cid:129) In the Audio Mixer, click a fader and type a value >12 dB.
(cid:129) In the Audio Mixer fast menu, choose “Adjust Clip Gain/Pan” and type a value into the “Clip Gain Adjustment in dB” field of the “Adjust Clip Gain and Pan” dialog box that brings your set clip gain to a value >12dB.
(cid:129) In the Timeline, click the Clip Gain fader icon and type a value >12 dB into the mini fader.
> **Note:** When extended clip gain is in use, fader knobs and volume level displays will appear yellow. The extended clip gain range allows for loud playback. Use caution when monitoring audio with
increased volume levels.
“LFE Only” Mono Tracks With the addition of a “This track is LFE only” checkmark in the audio mixer’s context menu, any mono track can be designated as the output for low frequency effects and will not appear in any other channels of the surround sound mix. Activating this feature removes the track’s panner and any audio is automatically “panned” into the selected LFE’s channel when playing, exporting, or creating a mixdown for a surround mix. Using “Split Tracks to Mono” on a multichannel audio track also designates the created LFE track as LFE only. If exporting to a Pro Tools Session file, LFE only tracks are routed to the LFE bus of the corresponding master fader. To ensure compatibility, the behavior of LFE only tracks are preserved for sequences shared with older versions of Media Composer as far back as 2014.
> **Note:** When using AAF export, tracks designated as LFE only will only work as expected in Media
Composer, not Pro Tools.
Track Effect Bypass Temporarily turn off track effects by using the new “Track” button in the “Effect bypass” section of the Effects tab, located in the Audio Project Settings dialog box.
Device Selection for Desktop Audio Output Device Selection for Desktop Audio Output The “Peripheral” menu, located in the Hardware tab of the Audio Project Settings, now allows you to select a connected audio device that Media Composer will use for desktop audio and save with your project settings. On macOS, the default behavior is “Follow System Preferences”, although you can select any other installed audio output device from the dropdown menu. On Windows, the first option is “DirectSound” (the corresponding device is set in Windows audio settings), and additional options include any installed devices with an ASIO interface.
> **Note:** On macOS, if the selected device becomes unavailable, it will revert to “Follow System Preferences”. On Windows, the default behavior gives preference to a short list of supported ASIO devices, such as
Avid MBOX Studio, and reverts to “DirectSound” if none are present.
> **Note:** Desktop Audio is not included when using the Capture Tool to simultaneously capture both audio and
video from video hardware.
Multi-Mix Tool Options Added to Pro Tools Session Export Settings Guide tracks can now be added to your Pro Tools Session Exports by using the Multi-Mix Tool options, which are accessed by clicking on “Multi-Mix Tool” in the “Add Audio Mixdown to” dropdown menu and selecting “Open Multi-Mix” from the “Multi-Mix setting” menu that appears.
GOP Options Added to XDCAM Export to Device GOP Options Added to XDCAM Export to Device XDCAM HD media that requires a constant GOP size can now be exported using the “Keyframe mode” and “Keyframe distance” options in the XDCAM Export Settings window when you choose Output > Export to Device > XDCAM.
Optimized EDL with Four Audio Tracks Optimized EDL with Four Audio Tracks Support has been added for up to four audio tracks when creating an optimized EDL. To use this feature, select up to four audio tracks in the Input tab of the List Tool and make sure the “Optimize EDL” checkbox is activated in the List Options tab before exporting.
Optimized EDL with Four Audio Tracks Product specifications are subject to change without notice and do not represent a commitment on the part of Avid Technology, Inc.
This product is subject to the terms and conditions of a software license agreement provided with the software. The product may only be used in accordance with the license agreement.
This document is protected under copyright law. An authorized licensee of Avid Media Composer may reproduce this publication for the licensee’s own use in learning how to use the software. This document may not be reproduced or distributed, in whole or in part, for commercial purposes, such as selling copies of this document or providing support or educational services to others. This document is supplied as a guide for Avid Media Composer. Reasonable care has been taken in preparing the information it contains. However, this document may contain omissions, technical inaccuracies, or typographical errors. Avid Technology, Inc. does not accept responsibility of any kind for customers’ losses due to the use of this document. Product specifications are subject to change without notice.
The following disclaimer is required by Apple Computer, Inc.:
APPLE COMPUTER, INC. MAKES NO WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THIS PRODUCT, INCLUDING WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO ITS MERCHANTABILITY OR ITS FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES IS NOT PERMITTED BY SOME STATES. THE ABOVE EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. THIS WARRANTY PROVIDES YOU WITH SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS. THERE MAY BE OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU MAY HAVE WHICH VARY FROM STATE TO STATE.
The following disclaimer is required by Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics, Inc. for the use of their TIFF library:
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software [i.e., the TIFF library] and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS-IS” AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
The following disclaimer is required by the Independent JPEG Group:
This software is based in part on the work of the Independent JPEG Group.
This Software may contain components licensed under the following conditions:
Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation, advertising materials, and other materials related to such distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed by the University of California, Berkeley. The name of the University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Copyright 1995, Trinity College Computing Center. Written by David Chappell.
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Copyright 1996 Daniel Dardailler.
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of Daniel Dardailler not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission. Daniel Dardailler makes no representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Modifications Copyright 1999 Matt Koss, under the same license as above.
Copyright (c) 1991 by AT&T.