---
product: media-composer
product-area: editing
version: "2023.3"
release-date: 01/03/2023
doc-type: new-features
source: pdf
confidentiality: public
date-added: 14/05/2026
status: current
---

New in Media Composer v2023.3 What’s New for Avid® Media Composer® v2023.3 New in Media Composer v2023.3 The following are new for Media Composer v2023.3:
• Copy Media from a Remote User to NEXIS Workspaces (cid:129) Improvements to Pro Tools Session Export (cid:129) New “Protect Project Bin” Command Added to Bin Context Menu (cid:129) Right-Click to Add a Folder Within a Folder (cid:129) New User Profiles and Workspaces for Editors Transitioning from Adobe Premiere Pro (cid:129) Update to Creation Date Column in the Marker Tool (cid:129) Choice of File or Folder in Relink Dialog (cid:129) Live Link Support for UME Copy Media from a Remote User to NEXIS Workspaces When connected to Avid NEXIS | Edge, the improved Copy Media function in Media Composer | Enterprise will allow remote users to copy media from their local machines back to a mounted NEXIS workspace. This means that any local media on a user’s machine, whether on premise or remote, and regardless of type (high-resolution, proxy or rendered media) can be copied back to the server for use by other editors working on a project.
> **Note:** Copy Media will only work with Avid Media Files and does not support Linked media.
Improvements to Pro Tools Session Export
> **Note:** Pro Tools Session Export is now available for owners of pre-existing perpetual licenses of Media
Composer | Ultimate and Media Composer | Enterprise.
The latest version of Media Composer includes updates to the Pro Tools Session export process. In addition to general bug fixes, these changes include the ability to export differences by comparing the entire contents of a bin (not just media files in individual sequences) when the “Ask to Exclude Audio Media from a Previous Sequence” or “Ask to Exclude Video Media from a Previous Sequence” options are selected for the “Copy All Media” export method. Once you click Save and choose a file location, the “Select Sequence” dialog box will appear, and you can select the entire contents of a bin (“All”) from the “Exclude Audio and Video Media Referenced from Sequence” dropdown menu. Also, the “Consolidate Media” export method is now able to export by comparing differences using the “Ask to Exclude Audio Media from a Previous Sequence” checkbox as well.
Other updates to Pro Tools Session Export include the ability to include or exclude inactive audio tracks by using the “Include Inactive Audio Tracks” checkbox accordingly, and the option to “Convert non WAV media to BWF”, which includes file conversions while copying differences during export.
New “Protect Project Bin” Command Added to Bin Context Menu New “Protect Project Bin” Command Added to Bin Context Menu When you lock a shared project bin in Media Composer, it prevents other users from making changes to that bin. With the new “Protect Project Bin” command, which is accessed by right-clicking on a shared bin icon in the Bin Container, the bin is made read only for all users, even for the user protecting it. Owners of a locked bin (“Lock Project Bin”) see a green bin icon. However, when a user chooses to “Protect Project Bin”, it will appear red, even for that user, and will always open as locked. Once the bin is closed, the user who originated the “Protect Project Bin” command can choose to “Unlock Project Bin” using the same context menu.
Right-Click to Add a Folder Within a Folder In previous versions of Media Composer, folders needed to be created at the root level of the Bin Container before dragging them into a subfolder. Now, simply right-click to add a folder directly within a folder.
New User Profiles and Workspaces for Editors Transitioning from Adobe Premiere Pro Editors transitioning from Adobe Premiere Pro to Avid Media Composer will find the process easier with the addition of new user profiles and workspaces. When you select “Create User Profile” from the “User Profile” dropdown menu, located at the top of the User Settings window, two default settings now appear: “Media Composer Default” and “Transitioning from Adobe Premiere Pro”.
Update to Creation Date Column in the Marker Tool Choose “Media Composer Default”, to base your profile on the default settings for the current version of Media Composer, or “Transitioning from Adobe Premiere Pro”, which makes the switch easier for those accustomed to particular window layouts and keyboard shortcuts, as well as providing easy access to commonly used editing tools.
Update to Creation Date Column in the Marker Tool The “Creation Date” column in the Marker Tool now follows the date formatting of the user’s operating system, which helps to align dates better and with an appearance that is consistent with a user’s region or other preferences. In addition, this column now sorts chronologically instead of alphabetically.
Choice of File or Folder in Relink Dialog Relink has been improved by allowing the selection of a specific file or an entire folder during the “Locate Media” process. Choosing a folder is a quick method to relink files more easily.
Live Link Support for UME Live Link is now supported through the Avid Universal Media Engine (UME) and available for use by MOV and MP4 video formats, as well as TIFF, JPEG, and PNG still images (not image sequences). This change removes an additional dependency on Apple QuickTime libraries. With Live Link enabled in the “Link Options” tab of the “Link Settings” window for a particular User, linked video files or static images created in 3rd party applications will automatically relink if they are modified outside of Media Composer.
Live Link Support for UME
> **Note:** When using Live Link, the duration, track layout and type of compression for the original file cannot
be changed.
> **Note:** Live Link does not support MXF OP1a files.
Live Link Support for UME Product specifications are subject to change without notice and do not represent a commitment on the part of Avid Technology, Inc.
This product is subject to the terms and conditions of a software license agreement provided with the software. The product may only be used in accordance with the license agreement.
This document is protected under copyright law. An authorized licensee of Avid Media Composer may reproduce this publication for the licensee’s own use in learning how to use the software. This document may not be reproduced or distributed, in whole or in part, for commercial purposes, such as selling copies of this document or providing support or educational services to others. This document is supplied as a guide for Avid Media Composer. Reasonable care has been taken in preparing the information it contains. However, this document may contain omissions, technical inaccuracies, or typographical errors. Avid Technology, Inc. does not accept responsibility of any kind for customers’ losses due to the use of this document. Product specifications are subject to change without notice.
The following disclaimer is required by Apple Computer, Inc.:
APPLE COMPUTER, INC. MAKES NO WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THIS PRODUCT, INCLUDING WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO ITS MERCHANTABILITY OR ITS FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES IS NOT PERMITTED BY SOME STATES. THE ABOVE EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. THIS WARRANTY PROVIDES YOU WITH SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS. THERE MAY BE OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU MAY HAVE WHICH VARY FROM STATE TO STATE.
The following disclaimer is required by Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics, Inc. for the use of their TIFF library:
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software [i.e., the TIFF library] and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS-IS” AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
The following disclaimer is required by the Independent JPEG Group:
This software is based in part on the work of the Independent JPEG Group.
This Software may contain components licensed under the following conditions:
Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation, advertising materials, and other materials related to such distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed by the University of California, Berkeley. The name of the University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Copyright 1995, Trinity College Computing Center. Written by David Chappell.
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Copyright 1996 Daniel Dardailler.
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of Daniel Dardailler not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission. Daniel Dardailler makes no representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Modifications Copyright 1999 Matt Koss, under the same license as above.
Copyright (c) 1991 by AT&T.