---
product: media-composer
product-area: editing
version: "2021.12.9"
release-date: 01/12/2021
doc-type: readme
source: pdf
confidentiality: public
date-added: 14/05/2026
status: current
---

Avid Editing Application Composer® ReadMe for Media v2021.12.9 Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.9 The following have been fixed:
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4880. In some instances, artifacts appeared in the Y Waveform monitor, depending on the Timeline Video Quality Menu settings.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5057. Exporting and reimporting a “File_129” EDL caused clip names with over 32 characters to be truncated to 32 characters.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5019. Depending on the type of symbols and the amount of space between them, closed captions generated by Telestream (CaptionMaker) appeared with duplicate symbols if imported as part of an AAF file.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4533. Importing SCC files created with Subtitle Edit (third-party application) caused some characters to be displayed twice in Media Composer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5116. In some instances, H.264 800Kbps Proxy (HD 1080i) media appeared corrupted in the Source monitor if the Video Quality Menu in the Timeline was set to Full Quality (green) or a Timewarp effect was applied when working with mixed frame rates.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4727. In some instances, H.264 800Kbps Proxy (HD 1080i) media appeared corrupted in the Source monitor if the Video Quality Menu in the Timeline was set to Full Quality (green) or a Timewarp effect was applied when working with mixed frame rates.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5117. Navigating between markers on a subclip using the “Go to Previous Marker”, “Go to Next Marker”, “Go to Previous Event”, and “Go to Next Event” buttons on the Source monitor caused Media Composer to freeze.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5104. Panning did not work properly for ganged audio channels in the Audio Mixer.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.9 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4158. When prompted to “Update Sequence” for sequences containing Group clips with Timewarp and color correction effects applied, the duplicated sequence created gaps between clips and changed the overall duration.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5023. Some bin column data was not displayed properly when used with the Timecode Burn-in effect on Group clips.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5005. Shift+clicking on markers in the Marker window and performing an operation, such as delete, affected the incorrect markers, if they were filtered using the search field.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5136. (MediaCentral | Production Management) Sequences took a long time to load if they had associated media on unmounted workspaces.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4707. (macOS) In some instances, Media Composer experienced intermittent hangs/beachballs on Apple Silicon.
Product specifications are subject to change without notice and do not represent a commitment on the part of Avid Technology, Inc.
The software described in this document is furnished under a license agreement. You can obtain a copy of that license by visiting Avid's Web site at www.avid.com. The terms of that license are also available in the product in the same directory as the software.
The software may not be reverse assembled and may be used or copied only in accordance with the terms of the license agreement.
It is against the law to copy the software on any medium except as specifically allowed in the license agreement.
No part of this document may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and recording, for any purpose without the express written permission of Avid Technology, Inc.
U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS. This Software and its documentation are “commercial computer software” or “commercial computer software documentation.” In the event that such Software or documentation is acquired by or on behalf of a unit or agency of the U.S. Government, all rights with respect to this Software and documentation are subject to the terms of the License Agreement, pursuant to FAR §12.212(a) and/or DFARS §227.7202-1(a), as applicable.
Avid and the Avid logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Avid Technology, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries.
See www.avid.com/US/about-avid/legal-notices/trademarks for more information on Avid's trademarks.
Adobe and Photoshop are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. Apple and Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Windows is either a registered trademark or trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.
Avid Media Composer ReadMe (cid:129) Created 6/7/23