---
product: media-composer
product-area: editing
version: "2021.12"
release-date: 01/12/2021
doc-type: fixes-readme
source: pdf
confidentiality: public
date-added: 14/05/2026
status: current
---

Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.10 Avid Editing Application ® Composer® ReadMe Fixes for Media v2021.x IMPORTANT: This document provides a cumulative list of fixes for the Media Composer v2021.x releases. To see detailed information on each release, see the individual ReadMe for each release here.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.10 The following have been fixed:
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5009. (macOS) In some instances, media containing alpha channels were incorrectly aligned with the Matte Key effect on Apple Silicon processors (M1 and M2).
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4671. In some instances, loading Avid Media Files with an alpha channel caused an "Alpha RLE compression not recognized" error.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5176. Applying an AudioSuite Gain effect to a 29.97 fps clip in a 59.94 fps project resulted in a render error.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4962. Incorrect clips were selected, regardless of playhead location, when stepping in and out of them while in the Color Workspace.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4579. Prunus AAF files imported into a 1080i/59.94 project in Media Composer could not be exported as AAF and returned an "Exception: AFileMediaDesc:
:SetAAFProperties() - Unable to set a container type for media descriptor" error.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5245 and MCCET-5247. In some instances, when using Dynamic Relink, partially restored clip’s tracks did not relink properly to their High Rez and Low Rez media.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5277. When using Dynamic Relink, partially restored clips with a Start timecode that began before midnight did not relink properly if their timecode rolled over after midnight.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5129. Nugen LM-Correct AudioSuite plugin was shifting audio and not rendering correctly in Media Composer.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.9 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5252. In some instances, when Sending to Playback with transfer settings set to stereo, the resulting clip would play back as mono.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5115. (MediaCentral | Production Management) Media Composer did not send all selected clips from one Workgroup to another when attempting to send multiple clips using the Transfer Engine and the Transfer Client.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4119. When exporting XDCAM MXF OP1a files, macro blocking occurred if "Re-encode for XDCAM bitstream compliance" was selected.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5014. More render files were lost when moving clips on tracks below an ExpertRender clip than in previous versions of Media Composer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5168. Changes to a duplicated sequence were undone if the record monitor was cleared and the sequence was reloaded within a short timeframe.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5023. Some bin column data was not displayed properly when used with the Timecode Burn-in effect on Group clips.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5192. In some instances, deleting a nested effect with the Effect Editor open caused an error.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5159. Comments did not appear in the bin Text View for a variety of items.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4707. (macOS) In some instances, Media Composer experienced intermittent hangs/beachballs on Apple Silicon.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.9 The following have been fixed:
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4880. In some instances, artifacts appeared in the Y Waveform monitor, depending on the Timeline Video Quality Menu settings.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5057. Exporting and reimporting a “File_129” EDL caused clip names with over 32 characters to be truncated to 32 characters.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5019. Depending on the type of symbols and the amount of space between them, closed captions generated by Telestream (CaptionMaker) appeared with duplicate symbols if imported as part of an AAF file.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.8 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4533. Importing SCC files created with Subtitle Edit (third-party application) caused some characters to be displayed twice in Media Composer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5116. In some instances, H.264 800Kbps Proxy (HD 1080i) media appeared corrupted in the Source monitor if the Video Quality Menu in the Timeline was set to Full Quality (green) or a Timewarp effect was applied when working with mixed frame rates.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4727. In some instances, H.264 800Kbps Proxy (HD 1080i) media appeared corrupted in the Source monitor if the Video Quality Menu in the Timeline was set to Full Quality (green) or a Timewarp effect was applied when working with mixed frame rates.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5117. Navigating between markers on a subclip using the “Go to Previous Marker”, “Go to Next Marker”, “Go to Previous Event”, and “Go to Next Event” buttons on the Source monitor caused Media Composer to freeze.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5104. Panning did not work properly for ganged audio channels in the Audio Mixer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4158. When prompted to “Update Sequence” for sequences containing Group clips with Timewarp and color correction effects applied, the duplicated sequence created gaps between clips and changed the overall duration.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5023. Some bin column data was not displayed properly when used with the Timecode Burn-in effect on Group clips.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5005. Shift+clicking on markers in the Marker window and performing an operation, such as delete, affected the incorrect markers, if they were filtered using the search field.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5136. (MediaCentral | Production Management) Sequences took a long time to load if they had associated media on unmounted workspaces.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4707. (macOS) In some instances, Media Composer experienced intermittent hangs/beachballs on Apple Silicon.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.8 The following have been fixed:
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4873. Source and Record monitors did not update properly while trimming if clips or tracks were muted.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.8 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4587. (MediaCentral | Cloud UX) In some instances, the MediaCentral | Cloud UX panel would not load after logging out and logging back in with a different user.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4895. (MediaCentral | Cloud UX) In some instances, the MediaCentral | Cloud UX panel would not load after logging out and logging back in with the same user and a different project.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4503. Audio clip gain values were lost and returned to unity gain if the clip was re-rendered, after making an adjustment to any plug-ins that were already applied and rendered.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4970. (MediaCentral | Production Management) Ingesting P2 files and creating sequences of clips using third-party MintUpload software caused an "Assertion failed:
*expectedBytesRead" error.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4987. In some instances, audio tracks became offline if Dynamic Relink was enabled and set to Highest Quality.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4706. Enabling Dynamic Relink caused linked .mov QuickTime files with a Matte Key (DNxHD with alpha) to go offline.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4602. Master Caption List was out of order when the SubCap effect was placed on two tracks and some captions were muted.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4963. (MediaCentral | Production Management) Importing media into a workspace with several MXF media folders caused the application to slowdown and enter a "Not Responding" state.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4407. Selecting multiple lines of dialog in the Script window and pressing the spacebar (or right-clicking and selecting "play" from the context menu) caused the incorrect line of dialog to play back.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4814. (macOS) When loading a subclip in the Script window, an in point was automatically marked at the end of the clip.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5029. When using “Transcode on Send to Playback" with a sequence that has Group clips, the Send to Playback would fail.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4953. (MediaCentral | Production Management) Audio waveforms for linked clips were very slow to draw, which significantly impacted performance and the ability to work within the interface.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.8 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4573. Media Composer was slow to launch when using the Floating License backup server.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3909. Media Composer appeared to hang on launch when using a checked-out license with no VPN connection to the license server.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5027. The Timecode Window, accessed via the Tools menu, would not redraw properly after changing the size of its font, which affected the amount of black space in the window.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5022. Copying and pasting keyframes in the Effects editor did not work for all properties.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5038. (MediaCentral | Production Management) Master clips relinked to smaller, consolidated media files and not the full-length clips, which was exhibited by segmented master clips appearing on the Timeline (Source Mode).
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5050 and MCCET-4859. (MediaCentral | Production Management) Consolidated media files were showing up in multiple locations and linking to the original, non-consolidated media files for master clips and subclips.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4544. (MediaCentral | Production Management) In some instances, XDCAM clips that were imported and consolidated using Media Composer 2018.12.15 could not be played in more recent versions of Media Composer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5011. (MediaCentral | Production Management) Files that triggered a "Fast Import" operation linked back to an AMA link of the original imported file when loaded for the first time.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4871. Arabic text did not display correctly in the Caption Text box for the SubCap effect.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4862. (macOS) In some instances, AAF files failed to import on M1 Macs.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4809. In some instances, audio for proxy media experienced playback errors, including distorted sound and playback that stopped unexpectedly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5077. Exporting a sequence with H.264 proxy media as an MOV produced corrupted frames.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.7 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4603. (MediaCentral | Production Management) When using Dynamic Relink with media that had both PCM and MP2 audio, the Highest Quality option did not always link to the PCM audio.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4491. (MediaCentral | Production Management) Depending on check-in procedure, End Timecode information for clips created with an Edit While Capture (EWC) workflow could be lost without a warning message.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5032. ALE file import caused all bin column names that start with "Vendor" to display incorrectly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5068. Transfer menu “Send To Playback” option was not available if the Timeline window was selected for users of Media Composer | Ultimate and Media Composer | Enterprise.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5075. Audio waveforms were very slow to draw and would take additional time to redraw if Zoom In or Zoom Out were used.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-5093. (MediaCentral | Production Management) In some instances, checking out and loading sequences caused Media Composer to crash if Dynamic Relink was enabled.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4593. (macOS) RS-422 deck control was lost for Avid Artist | DNxIO if BlackMagic Desktop Video 12.2 or newer was installed on the system.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4886. Audio was distorted while scrubbing through the Source/Record monitors and Timeline window on systems using the Teradici PCoIP protocol with Digital Audio Scrub and Fast Scrub enabled.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.7 The following have been fixed:
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4920. (Windows) Unable to resize Batch Import dialog box.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4720. Keyboard shortcuts for parameter values in the Effect Editor did not work as expected after using sliders.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4738. Media Composer crashed while scanning and rebuilding the database for UME folders containing a large number of MXF OP1a files.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.7 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4760. (MediaCentral | Production Management) In some instances, logging out of Production Management with media status indicators for Resolution enabled (black "dots" in columns within the Production Management Window) caused the application to hang.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4521. (MediaCentral | Production Management) The media status indicator in the Production Management Window, represented by a black dot in the corresponding format column, did not display properly when media was online and available.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4961. (macOS) Media Composer 2021.12.6 would not allow the creation of projects and bins on shared NEXIS storage.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4870. Labels were inverted in the surround sound pan controls of the Audio Mixer for tracks panned between the front and rear (f/r) speaker positions. Although the labels were incorrect, pan controls for the Y-axis position of the panner were not affected.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4960. (macOS) Some user interface elements would disappear from the bottom row of the Markers window when the window or its columns were resized.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4409. Users were prevented from creating more than 999 bins at the root level of the project folder.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4833. Multiple lines of text in the Comments column did not always display properly in a bin.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4915. When performing a Dynamic Relink operation, audio was offline for clips with audio tracks not starting at A1.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4838. Targa option was not displayed in the Graphic Format dropdown menu of the Export Settings window. If the blank menu item was selected, the Targa file extension (.tga) would not display for the file, and an error message was returned when an incorrect extension was entered.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4957. Adding a Baselight or Magic Bullet Looks effect to a sequence caused "an unrecoverable error has occurred” or "a serious error has occurred” message to appear when relaunching a project with that same sequence already opened.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4958. In some instances, clips that started at 00:00:00:00 would go offline after Media Composer was restarted and Dynamic Relink was enabled.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4948. In some instances, Media Composer would not relink all partially restored audio files when using Dynamic Relink.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.6 Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.6 The following have been fixed:
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4507. When switching between working and target settings for Dynamic Relink in the Timeline, the Source Browser window turned black and did not refresh properly until clicked.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4770. Mask Margins were visible over the color correction monitors (such as the vectorscope and waveform monitors) in the Composer window.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4843. Floating bins changed position and size each time a project was closed and reopened.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4850. Opening another sequence while in the Color Correction workspace caused the Edit workspace to load and altered the layout of the original Color Correction workspace.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4796. (macOS) Assets in a bin could not be selected after Option + Right-clicking on the Color column and making a selection with the color wheel.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4837. (MediaCentral | Production Management) "Managed AMA Media Folders.xml" and "AMA Metadata folders" increased in size, which impacted performance and caused sequences to load more slowly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4892. Highlighted text in a Marker's Comment field turned white and was unreadable after applying a custom highlight color of blue, purple, or yellow.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4681. User interface and cursor did not update properly when moving bins, resulting in long wait times and bins that were not moved.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4475. In some instances, Media Composer would not relink properly to audio files after partial restore when using Dynamic Relink.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4512. "Assertion failed" TimeWarp error caused Production Management check-ins to fail when the Neat Video plug-in was installed.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4916. Transfer options disappeared after updating to 2021.12.5.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4908. Third-party plug-ins were initialized upon launch. In some instances, this caused Media Composer to hang or crash, or triggered unintentional license usage for third-party plug-ins.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.5 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4175. In some instances, Arabic fonts did not display properly while using Titler+.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4510. (macOS) In some instances, the Titler+ window disappeared when switching between applications.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4545. Show Target Availability coloring displayed incorrect availability for partially restored media when using Dynamic Relink.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4569. Color Correction panel disappeared when scrubbing in the Timeline with the Color Correction workspace activated and "Clicking the TC Track or Ruler Disables Smart Tools" option enabled in the Edit tab of the Timeline Settings window.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4852. Media Composer performed slowly and would sometimes crash when "Show Mismatches" and "Show Target Availability" were enabled for Dynamic Relink.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.5 The following have been fixed:
> **Note:** Dynamic Relink has been improved with this release and includes various fixes to address issues
with Matte Keys and alpha channels. Bug Numbers associated with these fixes include MCCET-4737, MCCET-4699, MCCET-4568, MCCET-4561, MCCET-4616, MCCET-4560, MCCET-4784, MCCET-4829, MCCET-4666, MCCET-4778, MCCET-4467, and MCCET-4605.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4592. Switching from the Edit workspace to the Effects workspace put Media Composer into Segment mode.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4236. Switching quickly between workspaces linked to custom bin layouts caused Media Composer to crash.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4650. Settings for Master volume fader in the Audio Mixer tool were ignored during export.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4786. Metadata for imported .wav files was interpreted incorrectly, causing a change in track order and appearance of track names.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4613. In some instances, switching from Live Mix to Clip mode in the Audio mixer caused an "Assertion failed: IsValidPanCoefficientValue (newCoefficient)" error.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4809. In some instances, audio for proxy media experienced playback errors, including distorted sound and playback that stopped unexpectedly.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.5 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4433. Audio playback was faster than normal for clips created with Interplay Capture and AirSpeed Multi Stream.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4504. Frame thumbnails in the Markers window, for markers on the lower tracks of the Timeline, displayed an image from the topmost track.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4826. (macOS) Switching between user profiles with specific strings of Japanese characters in their name was not possible due to an issue with UTF-8 encoding.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4641. In some instances, user interface and playback would slow down and stop responding if sequences contained certain effects, such as the Safe Color Limiter.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4856. "Hybrid Log Gamma" in the Color Space column of the Select Project window was not properly decoded when using Japanese characters.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4636. (Windows) Keyboard shortcuts (Ctrl+0) to switch focus between windows in the user interface did not function when an active track in the Audio Mixer tool was selected.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4512. "Assertion failed" TimeWarp error caused Production Management check-ins to fail when the Neat Video plug-in was installed.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4430. Nested clips that contained offline media appeared colored, as though they were online, even if missing media was located in a nested layer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3706. Letter Gothic font was distorted in Titler+.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4506. After consolidating or transcoding footage with an alpha channel, the clip names for Matte Key effects were not properly decoded when using Japanese characters.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4858. Switching Audio Punch-in tool from Live mode to Auto mode caused an "Assertion failed: IsValidPanCoefficientValue (newCoefficient)" error.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4672. Timeline would center around the blue bar (current position indicator) while zooming in and out during playback and did not retain the position selected by user when “Timeline Movement During Play” was set to “Scroll”. Media Composer now retains the position selected by user and the blue bar is centered when playback is stopped.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4673. Checking out sequences was slower for remote Production Management clients with latencies higher than on-premises systems.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4832. In some instances, bins were very slow to respond when opening and closing, or when displaying, sorting and selecting certain media.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.4 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4772. Bins without changes were saved to the Attic when closed, causing the Attic to grow larger than necessary.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4799. Naming a Custom Preset with Japanese characters resulted in text that was not properly decoded.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4768. Option to "Skip Existing Transition Effects" was unavailable when using keyboard shortcuts to navigate the Quick Transition dialog box, even though "Apply To All Transitions" was selected.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4635. Adding an effect to a clip with Three Tone, HSL Color Correction applied caused the Color Correction controls to stop working.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4771. (Windows) In some instances, bins were very slow to open.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4705. (macOS) Right-clicking in Script window caused Bin Fast Menu options to appear.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4644. Exporting subclips from a bin or the Source monitor to an MXF OP1a file caused an “invalid trim” error.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4537. Send to Playback did not work for "AVC Long GOP 50 1080p 50" media.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4782. Enabling waveforms caused general sluggishness and slower performance when working in bins and sequences.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4233. Titler+ was very slow to render titles in a 1080i/50 sequence, especially when compared to a 1080p/25 sequence.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4695. Projects opened slower after adding MediaCentral Production Management Folder settings to Site Settings in MediaCentral.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4580. When adding markers to an audio track using the Source monitor in a 1080p/24 project, the marker position jumped to a random location in the Timeline. When using different project settings, the current position indicator jumped to a random location after clicking on a marker in the Marker window.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.4 The following have been fixed:
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.3 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4779. Using Preview in the AudioSuite tool played a portion of the original media beyond the end of the clip as edited into the timeline.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4368. In some instances, "Assertion Failed" error message appeared when using Dynamic Relink, audio media did not load properly, and "highest quality" option was ignored.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4783. Media Composer crashed when opening a script if the .AVC file was stored on Avid NEXIS.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.3 The following have been fixed:
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4710. (Windows)(MediaCentral | Production Management) “Exception:
Structured Exception” error appears when starting Media Composer and "Connecting to MediaIndexer" status is displayed on splash screen.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4211. Titler+ created unwanted keyframes when text was deleted from a text box with existing keyframes.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3408. (macOS) Title Tool caused Media Composer to crash when saving a title with Full Screen Playback enabled.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4581. (macOS) Video quality was significantly degraded when monitoring with an AJA DNxIV in Draft mode on an M1 Mac.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4612. Media Composer Options were not enabled when using a dongle for activation.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4710. (Windows)(MediaCentral | Production Management) “Exception:
Structured Exception” error appears when starting Media Composer and "Connecting to MediaIndexer" status is displayed on splash screen.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4242. When working with some AudioSuite plug-ins, rendering stereo audio was slow in a Production Management / Avid NEXIS environment.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4702. (macOS) The Enter key did not always work when entering values in the Audio Mixer tool.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4687. Selecting "Send to Export" in the Output menu reset some Motion Effect parameters and unrendered the effects.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.3 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4605. Online and Offline status for Matte Key clips was not consistent within a MediaCentral | Production Management environment.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4316. Linked Matte Key clips did not display the correct icon.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4549. Some users in a MediaCentral | Production Management environment experienced long delays and, in certain instances, crashes when logging in, opening projects and checking out media in projects.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4306. In some instances, toggling the "Override Working Settings with Target Settings" option when using Dynamic Relink caused audio and video tracks to become out of sync.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4629. Adding an Audio Track Effect to a track with Group clips on it resulted in the audio in the Group clip not switching or displaying properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4640. Removing markers on a clip while the Inspector Tool was open caused Exception errors.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4457. Transition Manipulation was broken while the Composer window was set to "Show Single Monitor".
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3592. Changes made to Color Space for external projects located on Avid NEXIS were not reflected in the "Select Project" window.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4508. In some instances, switching user profiles in Media Composer brought other apps to the foreground.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4585. Audio Punch-in did not work properly after Film option was selected during project creation.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4658. Export Settings were not retained when using custom presets to export media.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4540. In some instances, after moving a bin or closing a folder, items above it were automatically selected.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4462. Linking AVC-I Class100 1080p50 media was unsuccessful and returned "The media is unsupported" or "ExceptionUNKNOWN horizontal subsapling error" message, depending on the version of Media Composer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4634. When the comments column in the Markers window was too large, entering comments caused text entry to scroll off the screen.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.3 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4674. Media Composer created a floating bin by default for new projects, even when this option was not selected.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4486. When sending master clips to another workgroup using "Send to Workgroup", audio media did not arrive at the destination workgroup.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4551. Default Starting Timecode in the General Settings for a Project were not retained after pressing the Enter or Return key on the keyboard.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4576. Timecode window experienced a display glitch when switching between user profiles.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4516. When live capturing with the Capture Tool, the Extra Field Selection did not populate the corresponding custom column in the bin, but worked when logging only.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4621. The "Undo-Redo List" in Media Composer did not display entire list of recent actions.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4557. The ability to set a "Search Data Directory" location for Bin index and PhraseFind index was missing in the Search Settings window.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4657. In some instances, the "Exception: SETTING CLASS NOT REGISTERED" error message appeared after using the Command Palette to move the Segment Mode (Lift/Overwrite) button.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4601. Media Composer | Enterprise would not launch properly when logging in with case-sensitive usernames and upper-case letters.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4478. Avid NEXIS users experienced significant performance issues when bin indexing and noticed bandwidth irregularities in the Avid NEXIS Management Console.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4647. Left and right arrows for Master Gamma controls in the Color Correction panel returned inconsistent values.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4637. Workspace layouts did not restore properly and made docked bins become undocked.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4620. D-Verb settings reverted to default values when they were nested with a clip that had Audio EQ applied.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.2 Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.2 The following have been fixed:
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4303. In some instances, when launching Media Composer, the "Avid Media Composer Activation" window appeared, even though Avid Link showed that Media Composer was successfully activated.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4160. Media Composer perpetual floating licenses were deactivated after any MC Option was activated.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4575. Media Composer Definitions created for a group using the Media Composer | Enterprise Admin Tool were not saved or written properly for users.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4596. When in Bin Frame View, moving clips by lassoing them did not work properly.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.1 The following have been fixed:
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4330. Background transcoding of ProRes RAW files to another format failed to complete.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4558. Media Composer Enterprise was not able to launch when using Avid NEXIS client software.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4570. In some instances, when working in a standalone environment (local drives), you could not successfully perform a Send To Playback.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4563. When logging in to Production Management or MediaCentral | Cloud UX from the Media Composer project window, the password remained in the password text box after you logged out.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4465. In some cases Media Composer options would not be seen in Media Composer when Media Composer used Cloud Licensing.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4535. Using keyboard shortcut to open multiple bins resulted in floating panels instead of tabbed bins.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4527. Exporting BXF files caused a crash.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.1 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4442. JKL playback did not work properly when switching workspaces with Calculator tool open.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4577. Saving a new bin view made bin columns wider.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4485. Insert Export was not working properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4265. A sequence containing grouped XDCAM 50 clips with FrameFlex did not retain FrameFlex after performing a mixdown.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4490. Sorting by Date in the Find window did not sort correctly when Regional Format was set to English (United Kingdom).
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4361. You could not capture from the front XLR input of the Avid Artist DNxIO.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4378. (NDI) In some instances, the Media Composer monitor was either behind or ahead of the NDI stream.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4242. When working with some AudioSuite plug-ins, rendering stereo audio was slow in a Production Management/Avid NEXIS environment.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4360. In some instances, exporting to a P2 device resulted in pixelated and inverted images.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4399. If you performed an Export as Graphic and NDI was active, you might have received an “AMEResourceManager ReconfigHW_LegendBoB_Capture” error.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3854. During export some AAF Sound settings did not save.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4481. (Production Management) Clips with the Restrictions did not appear with the red triangle in the Media Composer bin.
➤ Bug Number: . MCCET-4497 (macOS) Performing a Select Media Relatives on a sequence crashed the application.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4509. In some instances, the image appeared garbled after loading a sequence in a Color Correction workspace.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4449. In some instances, when working with MultiCam sequences, Media Composer was sluggish.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12.1 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4402. With Gang enabled, selecting all Timeline Clip Notes resulted in a hang.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4395. (ScriptSync) If you added color to a range of script indicators, when you closed and then reopened the script, the indicators were filled even if they were not previously filled.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4499. (macOS) Using the Enter key to Adjust Pan / Volumes IN to OUT did not work.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4513. EWC media in a Production Management environment could cause sluggishness in the editor this has been resolved.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4498. Lassoing in Bin Frame View using Shift or Ctrl did not work properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4056. Applying a Matte key effect to a ProRes 4444 file did not preserve the fill layer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4437. Selecting “Set Audio Suite Plugin In/Out” from the AudioSuite Plugin fast menu does not work on rendered effect after performing an Undo.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4519. In some circumstances you might have received an error when using Color Correction with dupe detection enabled.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4382. In some instances, Dynamic Relink settings unexpectedly reverted to Most Recent.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4562. In some instances, LTC signals did not parse correctly in Read Audio Timecode.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4332. Transcoding linked 50fps h264 clips to 50i resulted in the wrong duration.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4371. (macOS) When working with a vector based object, Shift-clicking a direction handle did not create an asymmetrical handle.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4479. When moving bins in a project, it can take too long for the bin to respond and in some instances the beachball appears when moving the bin.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4443. You might have received a “m_qDrag deleted with deleteLater” error after dragging a button from the Command Palette to another button under the Composer Window.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4501. If a floating Timeline window is made smaller, scrolling with the mouse wheel does not work properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4450. Media Composer | Enterprise might have launched as Media Composer standard.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4436. If Dynamic Relink was enabled, an imported audio file might have appeared offline.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4494. (Production Management) In some instances, after checking in sequences, the thumbnail in Access would display “No head frame.” Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12 The following have been fixed:
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4375. The Timewarp graph did not scale when resizing the window.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4385. In some instances, with Media Composer v2021.9, XDCAM media appeared offline.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4397. When performing an import, Matte Keys were offline if Dynamic Relink was enabled.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4321. Checking out an ProRes 4444 with alpha from Interplay displayed as unsupported and would crash when you tried to play the clip.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4208. You might have received a “DISK_FILE_NOT_FOUND” error (not Media Offline) in Media Composer when media was deleted from Access.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4367. Audio levels were inconsistent after performing a render and opening and closing a Bin.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4404. In the Dynamic Relink Settings, switching the “If no match is found” option between “Use Highest Rez” and “'Offline” toggled the media offline and back to online.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4369. Audio from imported camera masters went offline after being brought in from Interplay.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4380. A sequence containing XDCAM HD 50 clips displayed yellow if Multirez was activated with Dynamic Relink Target setting set to XDCAM HD 50.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3500. In some instances, portions of imported TIFF files might not display properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4331. Media Composer crashed to a white screen if you enabled MultiRez with Dynamic Relink setting set to “Linked Media.” ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4002, MCCET-4408. With Dynamic Relink enabled, performing a batch import of .wav files (AAF from Prunus) did not import properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4376. In some instances, the Timeline would move unexpectedly if it overlapped with another window.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4310. When in MultiCamera mode, you might have received a “MultiframeCombiner.cpp” error if you turned off video monitoring on the source track.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3985. Sequences containing Stabilize effects were not correctly zoomed if exported as DPX..
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4199. Font type and size for Bin Containers and Bins did not update in real-time.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4287. Media Composer crashed when creating or opening a project when using Teradici Agent on macOS.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4190. Play reverse did no work with RED footage when audio was present.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4291. In some instances, the representative thumbnail frame in the bin could get corrupted after editing the sequence.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4262. Long sequences exported as UME ProRes might have been truncated.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4329. In some instances, a caption file (.scc) had a different duration in HD vs UHD..
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4193. Trimming subclips from MediaCentral | Cloud UX might have resulted in redraw issues in the Media Composer Timeline..
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4362. A restored sequence might have displayed as offline in an Interplay environment.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.12 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4384. You might have received a “CORE_CONSISTENCY_CHECK_FAILURE” error when linking some Tiff images using the UME plug-in.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4105. Bin tabs did not clearly show which bin was currently open.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4318. Subclips generated from ALE broke the masterclip metadata links if you type in the Comments column.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4145. After adjusting Color Correction and adding a Paint effect, Media Composer added multiple Color Correction effects in the Effects Editor.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4153. (macOS) In some instances, Media Composer would crash when changing to a Color workspace.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4152. Dragging multiple bins into a folder took longer then normal.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4285. When a Delete Window was positioned over a bin, if you canceled a deletion, the spinning wait cursor did not stop spinning unless you moved the mouse to another position.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4068. If the brightness in the Interface Settings was set to one of the two brighter settings, values in the Quick Transition window were cut off.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4275. Opening large sequences containing SubCap effects crashed Media Composer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4290. Bin thumbnails did not always reflect the monitored track in a sequence.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4269. Some effects would not render if a clip with “Adaptive Deinterlace Source” enabled had been applied.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4314. You might have seen video glitches if “prefer largest raster, then prefer highest bandwidth” was enabled in Dynamic Relink.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3375. Transcoding linked 50fps h264 MOV clips to 50i might have resulted in the wrong Start Timecode.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4231. In some instances, XDCAM media that includes an alpha channel appeared as Media Offline.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.9 Fixed in Media Composer v2021.9 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4275. Opening large sequences containing SubCap effects crashed Media Composer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4191. The TRK bin column heading was changed to lowercase Trk for imported ALE files, which did not pass the track data via AAF to Pro Tools.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4202. You may have received a “writing properties to asset manager” error when checking in a Matte key clip.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4218. In some instances, QuickTime with alpha MOV files appear offline after import.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3119. Some Avid Titler+ font names may have displayed as “Invalidate label encoding” in the Effect Editor window.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4164. (macOS) Avid Titler+ English alphabet characters were left behind once you selected Chinese Pinyin characters.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4177. In some instances, media was offline in the Timeline on some of the clips and adjusting Dynamic Relink would not bring it online.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4188. (Production Management) XDCAM HD media was offline after checkout and you could not get the media online.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4305. Using Quick Find in the Timeline might have crashed Media Composer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3893. (macOS v10.15.x) In some instances, previously saved Export Settings were not saved properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4296. After closing and opening Media Composer, some docked and tabbed windows were not retained.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4280. In some instances, working in the Audio Mixer crashed Media Composer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4091. UHD 100p projects might create a duplicate timecode frame in a 25 fps Timebase.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.9 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4187. Segment buttons from (Command Palette - Edit) did not work the same as the Segment buttons from (Command Palette - Smart Tools).
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4183. In some instances, the User Interface would appear to freeze or hang if you were working with a large project with many bins.
➤ Bug Number: MCDEV-15040. You might have received an “AAF import” when performing an update from Production Management for a sequence containing an Avid Titler+ effect.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4114. Dragging a saved Audio Track Effect from a bin to the Audio Mixer [+] did not apply the effect.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3705. (Production Management) Video track name changes might not have saved properly during check in/check out.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4065. In some instances, the clip color changed on transcoded clips with alpha.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4159. In some instances, with Dynamic Relink enabled, a sequence showed different clips offline depending on the version of Media Composer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4167. (Japanese OS) Dragging an effect from the Effects Palette moved the highlighted effect category up unexpectedly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4079. Site settings for Media Creation were not working for some codecs.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3847, MCCET-4155. Default Media Creation settings for new projects and when switching to a different project format might have been incorrect.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3510. Even after changing the Media Creation setting, video resolution reverted to default in 1080p50 projects.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4100. Media Creation Settings defaulted to H.264 800kbps proxy in 1080p/24 projects.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4013. If the RED AMA plug-in was installed on an Edit on Demand system, Scriptsync did not display script marks.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4137. A .transfer sequence did not play in MediaCentral | UX if stereo was enabled in the Transfer Settings.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.9 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4198. You might have had problems importing/linking DNxHR HQX media.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4063. In some instances, mixing DNxHD SQ media created by EVS, Media Director or Fastserve displayed in the bin as mixed resolution.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3842. Desktop Play Delay resulted in an “ADM_PLAY_NOT_ARMED” error when hitting play with NDI enabled.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4032. (Production Management) If you deleted a clip in Access, the media would not display as offline, instead you would receive a “Disk File Not Found” error.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4080. The Tool Palette window did not retain its size.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4052. Some H265 (HEVC) files could not be linked or imported successfully.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4201. When reopening a project, the Avid MediaCentral | UX panel opens on top of the Media Composer UI.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4200. The List Tool did not recall custom presets properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4227. The Timecode Burn-In effect did not display properly when changing the Timecode display setting.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3903. You might have received a “PMM_MISMATCH_UNKNOWN_ATTR” error when trying to capture from SD DV through 1394 (firewire).
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4005. If waveforms were enabled, six hour captures of “In progress” (EWC) clips were extremely slow.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4264. You might have seen a Waveform Engine crash when opening a bin, closing a bin, loading a sequence, or clearing a sequence.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4195. Capitalized names were sorted first regardless of alphabetical order in the Project window.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4240. In some instances, Telestream Live Capture was offline for V1, A1.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4224. In some instances, the Source Browser was not maximized enough to display the Link and Import buttons.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.9 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4029. The FrameFlex size slider did not go beyond 100% in the FrameFlex top viewer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3997. Window position was not saved in Workspaces.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4169. You may not have received a warning message when exporting XDCAM HD 50 (RDD9) exceeding 8 audio tracks.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4203. Apple ProRes 422 clips with 16bit PCM audio could not be linked using the UME plug-in.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4011. You were unable to link to ProRes 422HQ QT movie with UME plug-in, but could link with QuickTime plug-in.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3861. You could not successfully link or import ProRes HQ files recorded with Odyssey™ by Convergent Design.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3952. In some instances, mp4 files were out of sync.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4292. You might have seen redraw issues in the Source monitor when viewing 4 and 9 way MultiCam with NDI enabled.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3972. Performing a Long-GOP Send to Playback to FastServe failed if a local Transfer Engine was running.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4266. In some instances, after performing a Send To Playback, the Data track was stripped from the .transfer sequence.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4182. In some instances, 3D CLF LUTs did not always get applied in Media Composer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4226. After performing a transcode and checkout, png files might have been offline.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4238. Media Composer crashed with an “Exception: Structured Exception” error when trying to transcode or consolidate certain clips.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4205. AAF: Consolidating media set the master clip Start Time to Mark In Time when asking for handles.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4274. Moving bins and folders in a project may have resulted in a crash.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.6 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4229. You might have received an “Exception:
MXF_DIDMapperSegmented::ReadRange” error when linking IMX50 media.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.6 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4153. (macOS) In some instances, Media Composer would crash when changing to a Color workspace.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4101. Media Composer might have crashed when transcoding a GoPro clip.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4080. The Tool Palette window did not retain its size.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3850. You might have received a “Video compression not recognized” error when opening a bin containing DNxHD 220x created in Media Composer v2020.x.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3832. You might have received “assertion failed” or “fatal exception” errors when rendering or scrubbing media that was edited in Audio EQ tool.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3842. Desktop Play Delay resulted in an “ADM_PLAY_NOT_ARMED” error when hitting play with NDI enabled.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4059. You might have received a “compression not recognized” error when importing some media into Media Composer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4067. You received an “unsupported resolution” error when trying to link DNxHD 175X media that was encoded in Media Composer v2018.12.x.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4151. (Production Management) Checking out a sequence that contained a clip that was referenced in many sequences might have been slow.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3629. You might have received “Exception:
'AComposition::ConvertFromAAF - unable to convert media descriptor” errors when trying to work with Blackmagic Hyperdeck recorded files copied to the Avid MediaFiles folder.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4061. Importing some sequences resulted in “vcAvgFrameSize encountered a codec manager” errors.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4146. (Production Management) After performing an initial checkout of some clips, some audio was offline. This fix requires Media Indexer v2020.4.3 or higher client and server.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.6 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4053. When working with the List Tool, you might have received an “Assertion” error when previewing sequences with mixed frame rate or group clips.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4138. Right-clicking on the Name column to sort alphabetically did not work on the first sort. You had to right-click twice.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4148. Double-clicking the Take did not load a subclip into the Source Monitor from the slate.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4131. Media Composer crashed when playing a corrupted file from FastServe Ingest.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4097. (Edit While Capture) An in-progress clip may not have shown the same frame at the same timecode after the clip was closed.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4055. .The Paint effect window did not display properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4136. .Timeline Frame View did not show the correct frame with stacked clips.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4071. Target Mask not working properly in Avid Titler+.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3952. The audio and video for some MP4 media was not in sync.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4124. The application would crash to a Breakpad window when trying to import a PSD file.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4073. The small space at the left of the bin where you could right-click to select bin options was missing.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4007. When switching between a macOS and Windows system, you might have seen font and formatting issues when opening scripts.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4075. You could not lasso multiple bins in a project.
➤ Bug Number: MCDEV-14593. Saving the e-mail password setting did not save properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCDEV-14652. In some instances, nothing happened when you clicked on a workspace button.
➤ Bug Number: MCDEV-14646. You could not always rename a bin in the Bin Container Sidebar.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.5 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4024 . You might have received an “Unable to create SearchData directory” error when mounting the project workspace to a different letter.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3941. Imported markers did not display accents correctly if the text was from a 3rd party application.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4018. (Media Composer | Cloud Remote) Loading clips in the Source monitor from the Production Management window was slow. And you might have seen a “Not Responding” message before the clip loaded.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4066. (Media Composer | Cloud Remote) You could not use the computer when downloading media.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4051. (Windows) Double clicking a bin file (.avb) did not open the bin.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4038. In some instances, glitches appeared in the video when XDCAM media was consolidated. This fix requires Media Indexer v2020.4.3 or higher client and server.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3958. The user listed in the Interplay Transfer Status was the user entered in Media Composer settings, instead of the user logged in to perform the transfer.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4072. Creating a new bin in the Project Window did not allow you to immediately rename the bin.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4064. In some instances, when working with Media Composer | Cloud Remote, you had to force quit the application after clicking the MultiRez button.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.5 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4012. Exporting an Edit While Capture “In progress” clip as h.264 did not work with the UME plug-in.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3996. You might have received an “Assertion failed” error when performing a match frame with a sequence with group clips.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4001. Sorting was inconsistent in bins when in Script View.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3999. Changing the “Start” Timecode of a sequence from within the bin column, unexpectedly caused the drop timecode (DF) to become a non-drop timecode (NDF).
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.3 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4026. When T+ button was mapped under the Record monitor, the Titler+ icon appeared different after re-launch/edit.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3925. Clips with alpha may have had unexpected level changes when rendered.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4060. Color adapter should not have been added to alpha channel when doing a refresh sequence.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3624. In some instances, QuickTime h.264 could not be linked or imported.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3824. FrameFlex quality was not good on render, mixdown, and preview.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4082. Performing a video mixdown of a sequence named with a trailing space produced mixdowns that resulted in issues such as Reveal File not working properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3895. You might have received an “Out of Memory” error when exporting a 2 hour sequence to ProRes HQ 10bit.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3843. When working with Titler+, some Arabic text did not display properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3957. In some instances, Titler+ text did not look correct in the Record monitor. but did look correct in the Effect Editor.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4021. (macOS v10.15x, v11.x) The Verdana font was missing from the SubCap effect.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4049. Importing a wave file with Dynamic Relink enabled resulted in one audio track offline.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4093. Turning on waveforms when using Media Composer | Cloud Remote media, crashed the software. Waveforms have been disabled for Media Composer | Cloud Remote.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.3 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3986. A sifted bin did not show the correct assets after switching from Text View to Frame View.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.3 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3584. (MediaCentral | Cloud UX environment) When batch re-importing TIFF that are included in Prunus AAF files, clips display as WRONG FORMAT.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4014. You could not login to MediaCentral CloudUX if the password contained a special character.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3858. In some instances, performing a Consolidate changed the tape base Timecode.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3729. You could not fast import if “Use the current import resolution” was selected in the Import Settings OMF/AAF dialog.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3587. You might not have been able to open a sequence or you might have received “Crumb Exists” errors when opening a sequence containing markers on TC1.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3933. In some instances, the number of viewable workspaces was limited in a Media Composer | Cloud Remote environment.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3954. You might have received a “PMM mismatch error” when performing an Add and Render of a dissolve effect with AVC Long GOP linked with the UME plug-in.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3907. In some instances, the wrong image was displayed when modifying an object in the Effect Editor where there was an In and Out point.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3576. A gray border may have appeared when resizing matte keys.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3735. In some instances, you could not successfully relink between Interplay transcoded XDCAM50 and MPEG50.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3904. Selecting and playing all Script marks near the end of a take only played one clip.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3949. In the Audio Mixer, you could not enter a value in the volume level field at the bottom of the slider.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-2929. You might have received an “Exception” error when performing a Digital Cut immediately after capturing to tape.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3975. If the Regional Decimal symbol (Windows) or Language Decimal (macOS) was set to comma rather than period, you could not adjust the clip pan/vol with mark in/out in the Audio Mixer.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.3 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3936. Playback was delayed after switching between Color and Edit workspaces.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3977. In some instances, the User Settings pane appeared blank after creating a new Timeline profile.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3967. Media Composer might have been improperly importing audio track metadata.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3940. Subtitles that included a dollar sign ($) exported from Media Composer did not display properly in some 3rd party applications.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3987. You might have seen a “Loading media file information” message, a Rescan message, a Relink dialog or in some instances a crash when performing an insert or overwrite to the Timeline.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3853. In some instances, when inserted into a sequence, Apple ProRes 422 clips were duplicated in the active bin.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3882. Marquee titles disappeared after being promoted to Avid Titler+.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3959. If you performed an Audio Punch-in and then stopped the playback with the spacebar, the recorded segments might have been deleted.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3984. Alt+clicking the dB value field did not reset it to zero in the Audio Mixer tool.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3578. In some instances, adding or removing a Timewarp effect with “Adaptive Deinterlace Source” enabled, moved the image one frame and broke sync between video track and audio tracks.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3649. When linked with the UME plug-in, AVC Long GOP interlaced QT mov file displayed as 12.5fps in the FPS column instead of 25fps.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3722. (macOs) The Panasonic P2 plugin was not working with Media Composer v2020.x This has been fixed with P2 plug-in v4.9.0.5.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3464. (Avid Artist DNxIQ, Avid Artist DNxIO) Intermittently, when rewinding or fast-forwarding on audio only, playback stopped.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-4025. You might have received a “This program is not supported on VM instances” message when launching a Media Composer VM with a Floating License.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.2 ➤ years, for example 2019 appeared as 1919.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.2 The following have been fixed:
(cid:129) With this release, there is performance improvement when opening big projects on Avid NEXIS workspaces for users who experienced slowdowns with recent builds.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3378. Frames may have shifted after promoting a mixed frame rate sequence and modifying the speed in Motion Effect Editor.
➤ Bug Number: MCDEV-14087. You might have seen garbled marker text when re-editing in the Edit Marker dialog (Russian Locale and Hebrew text).
➤ Bug Number: MCDEV-14070. (macOS) You might have received an “EXC_Bad_Access” error after drag and drop with matte key and clicking in Effect Palette tabs.
➤ Bug Number: MCDEV-13999. The NRCS window did not fully close.
➤ Bug Number: MCDEV-13958. Using the “Float This Panel” window menu option to float the Audio Mixer caused it to go behind open windows.
➤ Bug Number: MCDEV-14064. (Custom Column) Media Composer crashed when using “Set Column for Selected Clips” for bin items ➤ Bug Number: MCDEV-13970 . When saving a new Workspace, the popup window did not open with the Name Field active.
➤ Bug Number: MCDEV-14056. Mouse wheel hover incorrectly changed value in menus and combo boxes.
➤ Bug Number: MCDEV-13378. After restoring a minimized floating window and then changing something in the window, you lost focus to the main Media Composer window.
➤ Bug Number: MCDEV-12847. Bulk Edit: Modify column should only include columns that accept text and can be modified.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3884. In some instances performing a UME MOV h.264 export might have resulted in an “AAMPIAudioProc::CycleBuffersThroughAMPI: destination FIFO overrun” error.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.2 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3881. Working with Timewarp with Adaptive Deinterlace and Resize effects resulted in a “PGLUE_IMPOLITE_PORT_NUMBER” error.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3947. Pressing the Tab key in a bin to rename a clip did not work properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3777. You might have experienced audio sync shift on local audio playback as soon as NDI was enabled.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3970. Audio Mixer Ganging did not display correctly after switching from Record to Source and back.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3922. In some instances, when trimming a sequence, the wrong clip was shown in the Source Monitor.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3816. When linking, the UME plug-in detected an interlaced animation clip as progressive.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3820. Loading or importing a file into a Pan&Zoom effect might have caused Media Composer to crash.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3908. (Media Composer | Cloud Remote). The Download/Upload queue did not display progress properly.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-386. In some instances you could not mark and IN and OUT in the Source Timeline.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3873. You should not have been allowed to Bulk Edit the Tape column.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3563. With Dynamic Relink enabled, media appeared offline after batch re-importing (PNG/TIFF) and AAF from Prunus files.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3877. You could not save a workspace if Source/Record monitors were minimized.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3945. Setting information in the bin column might have resulted in freeze (macOS) or Breakpad window (Windows).
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3928. When in Text View mode, using up and down arrow keys in a bin did not auto scroll.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3946. You could not type comments without clicking and you could not use the enter key to close when adding or editing markers.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.2 ➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3350. When sending a sequence with mixed formats in it with Transcode on Send to playback enabled, you might have received a “Can't send to playback:
Project format is different than target resolution format” error.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3956. The Bin window sometimes went behind other bins when you imported using drag & drop.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3423. (Interplay environment) Media Composer launched slowly if there were many MXF media folders in the workspace.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3921. The text in the NRCS tool was almost unreadable in dark mode.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3978. Ctrl+W did not save and close a bin if one or more clips was selected.
➤ Bug Number: MCCET-3962. The Media Central | Cloud UX panel and Production Management window could not be tabbed or docked with other tools.
Fixed in Media Composer v2021.2 Product specifications are subject to change without notice and do not represent a commitment on the part of Avid Technology, Inc.
This product is subject to the terms and conditions of a software license agreement provided with the software. The product may only be used in accordance with the license agreement.
No part of this document may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and recording, for any purpose without the express written permission of Avid Technology, Inc.
Portions © Copyright 2003-2007 of MOG Solutions.
U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS. This Software and its documentation are “commercial computer software” or “commercial computer software documentation.” In the event that such Software or documentation is acquired by or on behalf of a unit or agency of the U.S. Government, all rights with respect to this Software and documentation are subject to the terms of the License Agreement, pursuant to FAR §12.212(a) and/or DFARS §227.7202-1(a), as applicable.
Avid, the Avid Logo, Avid Everywhere, Avid DNXHD, Avid DNXHR, Avid Nexis, AirSpeed, Eleven, EUCON, Interplay, iNEWS, ISIS, Mbox, MediaCentral, Media Composer, NewsCutter, Pro Tools, ProSet and RealSet, Maestro, PlayMaker, Sibelius, Symphony, and all related product names and logos, are registered or unregistered trademarks of Avid Technology, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. The Interplay name is used with the permission of the Interplay Entertainment Corp. which bears no responsibility for Avid products. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. For a full list of Avid trademarks, see:
http://www.avid.com/US/about-avid/legal-notices/trademarks.
Adobe and Photoshop are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. Apple and Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Windows is either a registered trademark or trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks contained herein are the property of their respective owners.
Avid Media Composer Fixes 2021.x (cid:129) Created 10/5/23