---
product: mediacentral-cloud-ux
product-area: newsroom-platform
version: "2024.10"
release-date: 01/10/2024
doc-type: limitations
source: avid-official
confidentiality: public
date-added: 16/04/2026
status: current
---

## Limitations and Defects Found in Version 2024.10.0
- Asset Editor
Bug Number: ICI-4899. If you create a sequence in Media Composer that has assets edited into 3 or more audio tracks and the tracks do not include any overlapping audio, you might not hear playback of tracks 3 or later when played in MediaCentral Cloud UX.
- Workaround: Use Media Composer to edit some audio on track 3 so that it overlaps the audio on tracks 1 or 2, and then check the sequence back into Production Management.
Bug Number: NEO-3127. When using the controls in a Dip to Color Controls effect to define a new color, you cannot change the color with the slider bar.
- Workaround: Click anywhere inside the palette area above the slider, and then adjust the color value with the slider bar.
Bug Number: NEO-3447. If you enable the Show Audio Waveforms option in the Sequence Timeline and then start playback of the sequence before the waveform has finished drawing, it might not continue drawing when you stop playback.
- Workaround: Reload the sequence to allow the Asset Editor to complete the waveform generation process.
Bug Number: SYN-1267. If you create a Sequence with two video tracks and V2 starts with Filler and then a transition effect to the first video segment, that Sequence will fail the STP process.
- Workaround: Create a V3 track and either add a new segment to it, or move any segment from V2 to V3.
- Browse App
Bug Number: JP-9305. If the system detects that a new asset has been added to the folder that you are currently viewing, the Results area of the Browse app might jump back to the first page of assets after scrolling down to a second page (Card View only).
- Workaround: If the app returns to the first page of results, scroll back down to your desired asset.
- MediaCentral Acquire
Bug Number: CCUX-10376. When failover to spare channel is configured, and the first device stops working during a recording (e.g., due to connection or power issues), the recording will fail over to the second device, but the original recording on device 1 does not finalize.
- Workaround: To complete the recording process, request the transfer for the first device again.
- MediaCentral Sync
- For additional limitations, see the *Avid MediaCentral | Production Management ReadMe*.
Bug Number: SYN-985. If you configure the User Mapping in the Multi-Site Settings app to use a standard user account (non-admin), MediaCentral Sync might not allow you to configure the Target DB Path or the Target Workspace when creating or editing Sync Tasks.