---
product: mediacentral-cloud-ux
product-area: newsroom-platform
version: "2025.6"
release-date: 01/06/2025
doc-type: limitations
source: avid-official
confidentiality: public
date-added: 16/04/2026
status: current
---

# Limitations and Defects Found in Version 2025.6.0

- Asset Editor
Bug Number: MAESTRO-7333. The Graphics tab continues to display some aspects of the user interface in Dark mode after switching the appearance in the User Settings to Light mode.
Bug Number: NEO-3807. If you play an asset and then drag the clip from the Media Viewer to another area of the user interface, a large “ghosted” version of the frame is shown during the drag operation.
- Workaround: If you click anywhere the Viewer Timeline before dragging the asset, the smaller thumbnail image is displayed as designed.

Bug Number: NEO-3909. If you create a new News sequence and your connection to the server is lost
- (network disconnect, browser crash, or other), then the sequence cannot be recovered when the connection is reestablished.
- This issue applies to new News sequences only. If you are disconnected when editing an existing saved sequence, you are prompted to recover the sequence as expected.
Bug Number: NEO-3915. If you reload a Sequence or a News sequence after recording a new voiceover, the asset appears red in the Sequence Timeline if you enable the Show Media Status feature.
- Workaround: Reload the page in your browser, or sign out and sign back into MediaCentral Cloud UX to display the correct media status.
Bug Number: NEO-3920. If you drag and drop two or more markers from the Storyboard tab to the Sequence Timeline, only one of the selected makers is added to the sequence.
- MediaCentral Acquire
Bug Number: CCUX-7417. In some cases, when a recording check-in fails, the check-in icon may still display a successful status while the overall recording status shows an error.
- Workaround: To adjust the duration, either edit the recording directly or change the zoom level.
- Search App
Bug Number: RCTR-2870. The Search app’s Search Type menu includes an Ada Summary Status value. This feature is not currently available and is included only as a placeholder for potential future feature development.
- System
Bug Number: PRS-3541. Avid Transcribe jobs might fail due to an oversubscription of system resources most specifically SeaweedFS. When this issue occurs, you might see a “pq: cannot execute INSERT in a read-only transaction“ message written to the seaweedfs-filer pod log.
- Workaround: Restart the seaweedfs-filer pod(s) through Kubernetes and wait for the pod(s) to be recreated before attempting to transcribe new assets.
- If the issue persists, contact Avid Customer Care for further assistance.