---
product: media-composer
product-area: editing
version: "2024.2"
release-date: 01/02/2024
doc-type: new-features
source: pdf
confidentiality: public
date-added: 14/05/2026
status: current
---

New in Media Composer v2024.2 What’s New for Avid® Media Composer® v2024.2 New in Media Composer v2024.2 The following are new for Media Composer v2024.2:
• Changed in Media Composer v2024.2 (cid:129) Transcription Database Available Across Multiple Projects (cid:129) Export Transcript and Export SubCap from a Sequence (cid:129) Speaker ID Added to Transcript Exports (cid:129) Transcript Settings for Language Hint Selection (cid:129) Display Source Track Name in Timeline (cid:129) Public Preview of OpenTimelineIO (OTIO) Changed in Media Composer v2024.2 macOS Catalina (version 10.5) and macOS Big Sur (version 11) are not supported with Media Composer v2024.2 and later.
Transcription Database Available Across Multiple Projects With the latest improvements to the transcription database for PhraseFind AI and ScriptSync AI, transcripts for clips that have already been transcribed are now available for use across multiple projects. Time is saved by transcribing media only once, even if it is reused in several places.
Export Transcript and Export SubCap from a Sequence In addition to exporting a transcript from a clip, Media Composer can now export two types of transcripts from a sequence: “Export Transcript” and “Export SubCap”.
Right-clicking on a sequence and choosing “Transcript > Export Transcript” presents the user with the choice of audio tracks to mixdown, which are used for isolating spoken words and further improving transcription results.
Speaker ID Added to Transcript Exports Additionally, right-clicking on a sequence and choosing “Transcript > Export SubCap” presents a similar option for audio track selection, and outputs a transcript file that can be imported into the SubCap effect in the Effect Editor window, resulting in captions placed at the appropriate times across a sequence.
Speaker ID Added to Transcript Exports Transcriptions with multiple speakers that are exported from Media Composer now include identification of each speaker. Individual speakers are indicated by a number (Speaker 1, Speaker 2, etc.), even if there is only one speaker present.
Transcript Settings for Language Hint Selection Although Media Composer’s AI transcription is multilingual by default, users can define a particular language hint to use while indexing their clips, which gives the indexer a useful suggestion before transcription begins. This should only be done if the current project uses one language and the initial results were unsatisfactory, resulting in a more accurate outcome in some instances. The language hint chosen in Transcript Settings is accessed through the Project Settings window. Transcripts are stored in the database and can be shared across multiple projects, although language hint selection is not currently available as a global setting and must be specified per project.
Display Source Track Name in Timeline
> **Note:** Language hint settings must match across projects to share the same database for PhraseFind AI,
ScriptSync AI, and other related tasks.
Display Source Track Name in Timeline Media Composer can now access metadata from cameras, audio recorders, and other devices used in production, adding their information directly to the Timeline. Metadata that indicates the microphone used on a particular audio channel is especially helpful when it is necessary to pull a microphone that needs to be referenced or replaced. This information comes into Media Composer as bin column metadata, which can be accessed in the Timeline through “Clip Text”, “Change Source Track”, and “Source Side Patches”. Bin column names are pulled per channel from the metadata that was input by the sound mixer on set, and may include names like TRK1, TRK2, AudioTrack 1, 2, etc.
Using the Timeline fast menu to choose “Clip Text > Source Track Name” displays the corresponding metadata directly on clips, alongside the clip name.
Selecting and right-clicking on a clip in the Timeline and choosing “Change Source Track” displays the metadata that represents microphone placement, which makes it easier to swap out channels for clips in the Timeline. “Change Source Track” is also newly available for Groups and Multigroups, to make it easier to swap one audio channel with another from the same audio source.
When a clip is loaded into the Source monitor, users can also view the microphone information on the source side patches by turning on “Show Source Track Names” in the Timeline fast menu.
> **Note:** Any tracks that a user has manually renamed will override the automated track names.
Public Preview of OpenTimelineIO (OTIO) Public Preview of OpenTimelineIO (OTIO) OpenTimelineIO is an open source, interchange format designed for the exchange of information between video applications used primarily in VFX and online workflows. This format represents information about a sequence or clip as comprehensible, plain text, and may be considered an alternative to AAF, XML, or EDL file types. By opening an .otio file, it is easier for technically- inclined users to interpret and modify information in the text editor of their choice. In this way, it is relatively easy to change clip lengths, add or remove clips from a cut, and perform other operations that may benefit from simple scripting without opening Media Composer. As a response to growing support for OTIO across the entertainment industry, Avid is including a public preview of OTIO output in the latest version of Media Composer (Windows only). To use OTIO in Media Composer, right-click on a sequence, select "Output > Send To > OTIO" and choose a location to save the .otio file.
> **Note:** When using the "Send To" dialog to output an OTIO file, make sure to select "Export Setting 1",
which should be set to output an AAF with its Export Method set to "Link to (Don't Export) Media" in both the Video/Data Details and Audio Details.
Public Preview of OpenTimelineIO (OTIO) Product specifications are subject to change without notice and do not represent a commitment on the part of Avid Technology, Inc.
This product is subject to the terms and conditions of a software license agreement provided with the software. The product may only be used in accordance with the license agreement.
This document is protected under copyright law. An authorized licensee of Avid Media Composer may reproduce this publication for the licensee’s own use in learning how to use the software. This document may not be reproduced or distributed, in whole or in part, for commercial purposes, such as selling copies of this document or providing support or educational services to others. This document is supplied as a guide for Avid Media Composer. Reasonable care has been taken in preparing the information it contains. However, this document may contain omissions, technical inaccuracies, or typographical errors. Avid Technology, Inc. does not accept responsibility of any kind for customers’ losses due to the use of this document. Product specifications are subject to change without notice.
The following disclaimer is required by Apple Computer, Inc.:
APPLE COMPUTER, INC. MAKES NO WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THIS PRODUCT, INCLUDING WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO ITS MERCHANTABILITY OR ITS FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES IS NOT PERMITTED BY SOME STATES. THE ABOVE EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. THIS WARRANTY PROVIDES YOU WITH SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS. THERE MAY BE OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU MAY HAVE WHICH VARY FROM STATE TO STATE.
The following disclaimer is required by Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics, Inc. for the use of their TIFF library:
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software [i.e., the TIFF library] and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS-IS” AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
The following disclaimer is required by the Independent JPEG Group:
This software is based in part on the work of the Independent JPEG Group.
This Software may contain components licensed under the following conditions:
Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation, advertising materials, and other materials related to such distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed by the University of California, Berkeley. The name of the University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Copyright 1995, Trinity College Computing Center. Written by David Chappell.
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Copyright 1996 Daniel Dardailler.
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of Daniel Dardailler not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission. Daniel Dardailler makes no representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Modifications Copyright 1999 Matt Koss, under the same license as above.
Copyright (c) 1991 by AT&T.