---
product: media-composer
product-area: editing
version: "2023.12"
release-date: 01/12/2023
doc-type: new-features
source: pdf
confidentiality: public
date-added: 14/05/2026
status: current
---

New in Media Composer v2023.12 What’s New for Avid® Media Composer® v2023.12 New in Media Composer v2023.12 The following are new for Media Composer v2023.12:
• Batch Subclip Tool Adds Support for Sequences (cid:129) Export Transcript to Text File (cid:129) Export to M4A Container with AAC File Format (cid:129) QuickTime Import for Systems without QuickTime Installed (cid:129) SRT Optimizations (cid:129) PhraseFind AI and ScriptSync AI Fully Supported (cid:129) Avid Huddle Support Batch Subclip Tool Adds Support for Sequences In addition to creating subclips from individual clips, the Batch Subclip Tool is now able to create subclips from a sequence. The user can add handles, as well as creating a new sequence containing the subclips, with an option to create subclips from only the selected tracks in a sequence.
Export Transcript to Text File Export Transcript to Text File Users can now save a transcript generated by the PhraseFind AI engine as a text file to utilize outside of Media Composer. This option is available by right-clicking on a clip in a bin and choosing “Export Transcript” from the context menu. If saving transcripts for multiple clips, the user can set a location for the first export and the rest will follow.
Export to M4A Container with AAC File Format When using “Output > Export to File > Options” to output files, an M4A container is now available.
QuickTime Import for Systems without QuickTime Installed Windows and macOS systems without QuickTime installed can now Import and Batch Import formats that previously required QuickTime.
SRT Optimizations SRT Optimizations SRT, which often requires high bandwidth to stream out of Media Composer, has been optimized in the latest version. Improvements include optimized Low and Medium qualities to use a lower bandwidth while maintaining great video quality, a High quality setting that continues to use low- latency compression for better responsiveness when editing while streaming over SRT, and improved audio and video sync. Additionally, SRT streams are now able to incorporate ancillary timecode as SEI metadata.
PhraseFind AI and ScriptSync AI Fully Supported PhraseFind AI and ScriptSync AI are now out of public preview and fully supported for use in Media Composer | Enterprise and Media Composer | Ultimate.
Avid Huddle Support Support for the new Avid Huddle is now installed as part of Media Composer | Enterprise or Media Composer | Ultimate, v2023.12, as well as Avid | Edit on Demand, and appears under the Tools menu.
After obtaining a separate license for Avid Huddle and enabling it via Avid Link and MyAvid, secure, SRT live streams of your Media Composer output can be sent directly into Microsoft Teams.
This remote, “over-the-shoulder” view of your work in Media Composer allows members of a production team to share works-in- progress and provide real-time feedback in a familiar, collaborative environment. In addition to viewing the high quality, frame accurate video, participants in a session can make annotations and drawings on the video, add comments at specific timecodes, and export those as either a TXT file for use as markers in Media Composer or as a PDF that includes a screengrab of the timecode-based comments and drawings. Security is also a priority, and these unique, token-encrypted streams cannot be intercepted or recorded, and their data is not stored anywhere - once a sessions closes, no media persists. For more information on installing and using Avid Huddle, refer to the Avid Huddle Setup and User Guide.
> **Note:** Only the editor that initiates the Avid Huddle session is required to have a license and plug-in
installation for the Avid Huddle service (in addition to installing the SRT plug-in). However, all session participants must have Microsoft Teams, Work or School edition.
Avid Huddle Support Product specifications are subject to change without notice and do not represent a commitment on the part of Avid Technology, Inc.
This product is subject to the terms and conditions of a software license agreement provided with the software. The product may only be used in accordance with the license agreement.
This document is protected under copyright law. An authorized licensee of Avid Media Composer may reproduce this publication for the licensee’s own use in learning how to use the software. This document may not be reproduced or distributed, in whole or in part, for commercial purposes, such as selling copies of this document or providing support or educational services to others. This document is supplied as a guide for Avid Media Composer. Reasonable care has been taken in preparing the information it contains. However, this document may contain omissions, technical inaccuracies, or typographical errors. Avid Technology, Inc. does not accept responsibility of any kind for customers’ losses due to the use of this document. Product specifications are subject to change without notice.
The following disclaimer is required by Apple Computer, Inc.:
APPLE COMPUTER, INC. MAKES NO WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THIS PRODUCT, INCLUDING WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO ITS MERCHANTABILITY OR ITS FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES IS NOT PERMITTED BY SOME STATES. THE ABOVE EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. THIS WARRANTY PROVIDES YOU WITH SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS. THERE MAY BE OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU MAY HAVE WHICH VARY FROM STATE TO STATE.
The following disclaimer is required by Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics, Inc. for the use of their TIFF library:
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software [i.e., the TIFF library] and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS-IS” AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
The following disclaimer is required by the Independent JPEG Group:
This software is based in part on the work of the Independent JPEG Group.
This Software may contain components licensed under the following conditions:
Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation, advertising materials, and other materials related to such distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed by the University of California, Berkeley. The name of the University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Copyright 1995, Trinity College Computing Center. Written by David Chappell.
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Copyright 1996 Daniel Dardailler.
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of Daniel Dardailler not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission. Daniel Dardailler makes no representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Modifications Copyright 1999 Matt Koss, under the same license as above.
Copyright (c) 1991 by AT&T.