---
product: media-composer
product-area: editing
version: "2020.4"
release-date: 01/04/2020
doc-type: new-features
source: pdf
confidentiality: public
date-added: 14/05/2026
status: current
---

New in Media Composer v2020.4 What’s New for Avid® Media Composer® v2020.4 New in Media Composer v2020.4 The following are new for Media Composer v2020.4:
• Apple ProRes Support (cid:129) macOS Catalina Support (cid:129) Avid Universal Media Engine (UME) (cid:129) Avid S1 Control Surface (cid:129) Avid MediaFiles Folder Location (cid:129) Windows 7 Note (cid:129) Resolution Name Changes (cid:129) New Select Project Window (cid:129) Timeline Sequence Map (cid:129) Bulk Edit (cid:129) Blank Panel (cid:129) Effect Palette Update (cid:129) Select Muted Clips (cid:129) Avid Titler+ Changes (cid:129) Interface Settings Update (cid:129) Trim Settings Update (cid:129) New ACES Output Transforms (cid:129) Mask Margin Presets (cid:129) Improved Color Correction Control (cid:129) Strip Silence (cid:129) Mapping Buttons at the Bottom of the Timeline New in Media Composer v2020.4 Apple ProRes Support Media Composer supports the creation of Apple ProRes media in OP-Atom, MXF OP1a, and MOV containers on both Mac and Windows. Media Composer support for ProRes does not require QuickTime.
You can select Apple ProRes when exporting as MOV or MXF OP1a.
> **Note:** Apple ProRes RAW is not yet supported Export of Apple ProRes SD MOV is not supported.
You can also select Apple ProRes in your Media Creation Settings.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 macOS Catalina Support This release of the editing application supports macOS v10.15.4 (Catalina). macOS Catalina exclusively supports 64-bit applications. 32-bit applications no longer run.
Compatibility when running macOS Catalina or higher (cid:129) No support for DMF (Dynamic Media Folders) (cid:129) No support for Nitris DX and Mojo DX.
(cid:129) No support for the Avid Title Tool Application or Marquee.
(cid:129) If you have a Media Composer client that needs to connect to Production Management, you cannot upgrade the macOS on your Media Composer system to Catalina.
(cid:129) The Media Composer |Enterprise Admin tool is not supported on Catalina in this release. The Media Composer |Enterprise client will run on Catalina.
(cid:129) Avid NEXIS version 19.12.x is the earliest supported version to be supported with Catalina - with the following caveat:
- Thunderbolt 3 Ethernet adapters will not work with Avid NEXIS 19.12.x on Catalina.
Thunderbolt 2 is fine. If you have a client system that uses Thunderbolt 3 and you need to connect to Nexis on Catalina, you will need a Thunderbolt 3 to Thunderbolt 2 adapter, and then attach your Thunderbolt 2 Ethernet adapter to that.
QuickTime functionality when running on a macOS Catalina system Note the following regarding QuickTime on a macOS system:
New in Media Composer v2020.4 What you cannot do:
(cid:129) MP4 export (cid:129) Link to MOV or MP4 files using the following codecs: DNxHD with Alpha, Meridien, MPEG 50, DV, MPEG 4 (H.263), Apple None, Apple Intermediate, DVCPro, PNG*, or other formats that require a QuickTime Codec (cid:129) Link to 3GP, 3G2, AU, AVI*, BMP*, DV, GIF, M4V, MID, MP2, MP3, MPE (cid:129) WAV and AIFF import/export containing uncompressed PCM audio at 8 and 32-bit (cid:129) Link, import or export QuickTime Reference, Same as Source (cid:129) Link, import or export Variable Frame Rate (VFR) H.264 in MOV, MP4 * Note this is just PNG in a MOV container; PNG image files will still be supported * AVI Import is still supported on Windows systems without QuickTime installed * Linking for BMP is not supported without QuickTime, however Import of BMP is supported without QuickTime Avid is implementing the Avid UME plug-in for linking, importing and exporting. See Avid Universal Media Engine (UME)
> **Note:** You may see some files linked with the 'QuickTime Plugin' in the Source Browser even when
QuickTime is not available (for example, with. Catalina) because the AMA QuickTime plug-in can handle some files on its own, without QuickTime.
Avid Universal Media Engine (UME) Avid has been working on a solution to remove Media Composer dependency on Apple QuickTime libraries. Avid is implementing the Avid UME plug-in for linking, importing and exporting. Note that if you use v2020.4 on a system with QuickTime still installed, you may not experience any immediate changes to working with files that rely on QuickTime.
> **Note:** NOTE: The Avid Generic plug-in will be replaced by Avid UME.
Linking and Importing: Avid UME will be used for linking to and importing the following in v2020.4:
(cid:129) MOV (cid:129) MP4 (cid:129) TIFF - Single image and Image Sequences (cid:129) PNG - Single image and Image Sequences (cid:129) JPEG - Single image and Image Sequences (cid:129) EXR - Single image (Image Sequences supported since 19.6) (cid:129) MP3 (cid:129) AAC Exporting: Avid UME is used for exporting in v2020.4:
(cid:129) MOV (cid:129) EXR New in Media Composer v2020.4 Improvements when using UME (cid:129) Better H.264 performance (cid:129) Support for H.264 with rasters greater than 4K (cid:129) Native OP1a (released in 2019.6 but related to UME) (cid:129) EXR (released in 2019.12 but related to UME) (cid:129) Framerate and Raster changes on “import” (cid:129) Support for QuickTime clips where audio and video are of different lengths (when audio extends video, we insert black, or when video extends audio, we insert silence, to ensure all tracks are the same length) (cid:129) Image based sequences support for PNG, TIFF, JPEG, linking to single OpenEXR files Not currently supported with UME (cid:129) Support for 3GP, 3G2, AVI*, AU, BMP**, DV, GIF, MID, MP2, MPE (cid:129) Support for linking to MOV of MP4 with Meridien, MPEG 50, DV, MPEG 4 (H.263), Apple None, Apple Intermediate, DVCPro, PNG*** (cid:129) LiveLink (cid:129) DMF (Dynamic Media Folders) (cid:129) QuickTime Ref support (cid:129) SAS (Same As Source) *AVI import is still supported on Windows systems without QuickTime **Linking for BMP is not supported without QuickTime, however Import of BMP is supported without QuickTime ***Note this is just PNG in a MOV container; PNG images files will still be supported DNxHD Changes DNxHD media is also affected by these changes. DNxHD was updated to support the ADHRv2 standard, which requires changes to how DNxHD is written and interpreted in MOV files. This means that existing MOV files containing DNxHD with Alpha, as generated in earlier versions of Avid products and 3rd Party products, will be converted to MXF OP1a upon linking. It also means that DNxHD MOV files created using UME will require an updated QuickTime PE/LE codec package in order to be supported by previous versions of Media Composer and 3rd Party products.
The long-term maintenance streams of Media Composer (2018.12.x, 2019.12.x) will be updated with these codecs. In addition, a separate installer will also be available for use in 3rd Party applications.
IMPORTANT NOTES:
(cid:129) Clips linked using Avid UME will not be supported in pre-v2020.4 versions of Media Composer.
(cid:129) Avid Generic will be removed as an available linking option, but will still be installed to support reading files linked in previous versions of Media Composer.
(cid:129) For systems where QuickTime is installed, AMA QuickTime will remain as a linking option, as an autodetect fallback for files that aren’t supported by Avid UME, and for reading files linked via QuickTime in previous versions of Media Composer.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 (cid:129) Files linked with QuickTime in previous versions of Media Composer will not be automatically promoted to UME in MC 2020.4. As a result, on systems where QuickTime is not installed, you need to manually update your sequences with newly linked clips.
(cid:129) On systems where QuickTime is installed, legacy QuickTime export will remain in Media Composer v2020.4, to be retired in a later release.
(cid:129) In Media Composer v2020.4, even with QuickTime installed, UME is the autodetect default, with AMA QuickTime being the fallback if the file is not supported by UME. You may manually override UME link to use AMA QuickTime, however.
(cid:129) For systems with QuickTime installed, you may still use AMA QuickTime for linking media.
(cid:129) If you’ve already linked via QuickTime in a previous version, the media will continue to be linked via QuickTime. You will not need to relink your media.
(cid:129) If you intend to go back to a previous version of Media Composer or if you don’t know what version of Media Composer may be used with a project, you may want to use QuickTime AMA for linking.
(cid:129) For files that aren’t currently supported by UME, Media Composer will automatically use QuickTime AMA for linking (cid:129) Clips linked using UME will not be supported in pre-20.4 versions of Media Composer. If you link to media on a system that does not have QuickTime installed and you intend to bring that project and/or media to a system with a prior version of Media Composer, we recommend that you first import the media before moving. Otherwise you will need to relink your media in the prior software version, and not all media may relink.
(cid:129) Linked files from previous versions of Media Composer will not be automatically promoted to using UME. As a result, on systems where QuickTime is not installed, you need to manually update the sequences with newly linked clips.
(cid:129) Export will default to using UME, however there will be an option to use QuickTime if it is installed. This may be desirable if you need to export a format that UME does not yet support, or if you are exporting DNxHD in a MOV container that will be used by an application that does not have the new Codecs PE / LE installed.
(cid:129) If you aren’t sure how your media is linked, you can refer to the Plug-in column in your bin.
FAQ Q: Why can I take OP1a MXF and EXR clips that were linked in v2020.4 and higher back to older versions of Media Composer, but not other file types?
A: Native OP1a MXF and support for EXR files were both added with Media Composer 2019.6 with the initial release of UME. Therefore you can link to either file type in 2020.4 and higher and then take that media back to a version that supports EXR and OP1a MXF (2019.6 and higher) since the link will always use UME.
Q: What does the message “This clip requires UME which is supported in Media Composer 20.4 and later” mean?
A: This is the message that will appear if you attempt to link to a file that was originally linked via UME on a Media Composer system that does not use UME.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 Avid S1 Control Surface This release of Media Composer adds support for audio channel meters for both the Avid S1 Control Surface and the Avid Control app. See S1 documentation at https://www.avid.com/products/avid- control Custom Soft Keys This Media Composer update comes with a new default set of custom soft keys for use with S1, Artist Control, and Avid Control tablet and phone app. The available palette of commands available to EUControl has been updated to include all recently added Media Composer commands from the command palette and menu items that are assignable to keys. This adds about 100 commands to the available palette, bringing it up to about 500. The exact number varies with model and options configured.
However, as part of this change, about 50 commands were moved into a different EUControl command group. This mismatch prevents them from working, so if you use any of these commands in your customized set of soft keys for the Artist Control or Avid Control app, you need to update your customization to pick up this change. You do this in the Soft Keys pane of the EUContol Settings. Reselecting each affected command and re-saving the customization will update the command to the new group.
Workspace 1 Export Clear Renders FX Bring Forward Clear Mobs Workspace 2 Center Pan Clear Mon FX Send Back Cycle Trim End Workspace 3 Default Pan Freeze Frame FX Group Zoom In Workspace 4 Apply Gain Load Filler FX Ungroup Zoom Out Workspace 5 Split All Tracks to Mono Video Output FX Lock Zoom Full Out Workspace 6 Find Black Hole Source/Record Editing FX Unlock Play Preview Workspace 7 Find Flash Frame Effects Editing Freeze 15 Bring Forward Workspace 8 Add Timeline Clip Note Color Correction Freeze 30 Send Back File New New Audio Track Audio Editing Freeze 60 Trim Slip Import New Audio Track Stereo FX Bring to Front Two Field Both Trim Slide Digital Cut Render FX Send to Back Two Field Inter Avid MediaFiles Folder Location With the release of macOS v10.15.x, you cannot write media to the root of the boot drive. Therefore, the default location for the Avid MediaFiles folder has changed with this release. You can now find the Avid MediaFiles folder in the following locations:
(cid:129) (Windows) drive:\Users\Public\Documents\Avid Media Composer (cid:129) (macOS) /Users/Shared/AvidMediaComposer
> **Note:** If you performed an upgrade and Avid MediaFiles already exists at the root, we will continue to use
that location.
Also, there is no change for non-system disks. We will continue to use the root for the Avid MediaFiles directory.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 Windows 7 Note This release of the editing application no longer supports Windows 7. The Windows versions supported are:
(cid:129) Windows v10 64-bit v1809 or later (Professional and Enterprise) Resolution Name Changes A number of resolution names have been simplified.You will see the following name changes when selecting formats in Media Composer.
ProRes Name Changes Old Name New Name Apple ProRes 422 Proxy Apple ProRes 422 (Proxy) Apple ProRes 422 LT Apple ProRes 422 (LT) Apple ProRes 422 HQ Apple ProRes 422 (HQ) DNxHD Name Changes Project - Frame Rate Old Name New Name 1080p/60 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 440x DNxHD HQX 1080p/60 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 440 DNxHD HQ 1080p/60 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 290 DNxHD SQ 1080p/60 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 90 DNxHD LB 1080p/59.94 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 440x DNxHD HQX 1080p/59.94 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 440 DNxHD HQ 1080p/59.94 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 290 DNxHD SQ 1080p/59.94 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 90 DNxHD LB 1080p/50 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 365x DNxHD HQX 1080p/50 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 365 DNxHD HQ 1080p/50 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 240 DNxHD SQ 1080p/50 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 75 DNxHD LB 1080i/59.94 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 220x DNxHD HQX 1080i/59.94 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 220 DNxHD HQ 1080i/59.94 - 1440x1080 (DNxHD-TR 145) DNxHD TR+ 1080i/59.94 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 145 DNxHD SQ 1080i/59.94 - 1440x1080 Avid DNxHD 100 DNxHD TR New in Media Composer v2020.4 Project - Frame Rate Old Name New Name 1080i/50 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 185x DNxHD HQX 1080i/50 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 185 DNxHD HQ 1080i/50 - 1440x1080 (DNxHD-TR 145) DNxHD TR+ 1080i/50 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 120 DNxHD SQ 1080i/50 - 1440x1080 Avid DNxHD 85 DNxHD TR 1080p/25 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 185x DNxHD HQX 1080p/25 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 185 DNxHD HQ 1080p/25 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 120 DNxHD SQ 1080p/25 - 1440 x1080 Avid DNxHD 85 DNxHD TR 1080p/25 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 36 DNxHD LB 1080p/24 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 175x DNxHD HQX 1080p/24 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 175 DNxHD HQ 1080p/24 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 115 DNxHD SQ 1080p/24 - 1440 x1080 Avid DNxHD 80 DNxHD TR 1080p/24 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 36 DNxHD LB 1080p/23.976 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 175x DNxHD HQX 1080p/23.976 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 175 DNxHD HQ 1080p/23.976 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 115 DNxHD SQ 1080p/23.976 - 1440 x1080 Avid DNxHD 80 DNxHD TR 1080p/23.976 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 36 DNxHD LB 1080p/29.97 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 220x DNxHD HQX 1080p/29.97 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 220 DNxHD HQ 1080p/29.97 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 145 DNxHD SQ 1080p/29.97 - 1440 x1080 Avid DNxHD 100 DNxHD TR 1080p/29.97 - 1920 x1080 Avid DNxHD 45 DNxHD LB 720p/59.94 - 1280 x720 Avid DNxHD 220x DNxHD HQX 720p/59.94 - 1280 x720 Avid DNxHD 220 DNxHD HQ 720p/59.94 - 1280 x720 Avid DNxHD 145 DNxHD SQ New in Media Composer v2020.4 Project - Frame Rate Old Name New Name 720p/59.94 - 960 x720 Avid DNxHD 100 DNxHD TR-SQ 720p/50 - 1280 x 720 Avid DNxHD 175x DNxHD HQX 720p/50 - 1280 x 720 Avid DNxHD 175 DNxHD HQ 720p/50 - 1280 x 720 Avid DNxHD 115 DNxHD SQ 720p/50 - 960 x720 Avid DNxHD 85 DNxHD TR 720p/29.97 - 1280 x720 Avid DNxHD 110x DNxHD HQX 720p/29.97 - 1280 x720 Avid DNxHD 110 DNxHD HQ 720p/29.97 - 1280 x720 Avid DNxHD 75 DNxHD SQ 720p/29.97 - 960 x720 Avid DNxHD 50 DNxHD TR-SQ 720p/25 - 1280 x720 Avid DNxHD 90x DNxHD HQX 720p/25 - 1280 x720 Avid DNxHD 90 DNxHD HQ 720p/25 - 1280 x720 Avid DNxHD 60 DNxHD SQ 720p/25 - 960 x720 Avid DNxHD 45 DNxHD TR 720p/23.976 - 1280 x720 Avid DNxHD 90x DNxHD HQX 720p/23.976 - 1280 x720 Avid DNxHD 90 DNxHD HQ 720p/23.976 - 1280 x720 Avid DNxHD 60 DNxHD SQ 720p/23.976 - 960 x720 Avid DNxHD 50 DNxHD TR-SQ New Select Project Window The Select Project window has been updated. The redesign makes it easier for you to create and manage your projects. The window includes:
(cid:129) You can easily open an existing project or create a new project.
(cid:129) You can display the project list in column text view or in frame view. Rows and columns in text view allows you to see more information about two or more projects at once.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 (cid:129) You can select the What’s New tab to display information about new features.
(cid:129) You can set the poster frame you want displayed in the Select Project window. Once you open the project, right click the desired frame in the Composer monitor and select “Save as project poster frame”. That frame will appear in the Select Project window as the representative project frame.
(cid:129) You can easily change the font and columns displayed from the fast menu.
Timeline Sequence Map The Sequence Map allows you to easily see and navigate the Timeline through a simple to use interface that displays the entire sequence and your current view of it. You simply mouse down on the white box and drag in any direction on the map which re-adjusts the current view of the Timeline.
This makes it easier to move through long and tall sequences.
Select Timeline > Show Sequence Map.
In addition, you can float, dock or tab the Sequence Map. Right click in the white area and select Show in Dedicated Window. The Sequence map opens in its own window. If you want to return it to the Timeline, right click in the dedicated window and select Show in Timeline.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 Bulk Edit Bulk Edit allows you to replace the data in a particular column for multiple bin items according to a format that can be customized. The format can contain things like strings, text from any column, and a counter. For example, a user can use Bulk Edit to add a prefix or suffix to all selected clips’ Names.
To perform a bulk edit:
1. Select the items in the bin where you want to perform a bulk edit.
2. Right click and select Bulk Edit.
3. Select the Column you want to Modify.
4. Choose to change which items in the bin you want to modify: the Selected items, All Bin items.
All Master Clips, All Sub-clips, or All Sequences.
5. You can choose to replace column data with the following:
- Specified Text: Enter the text you want to change in the column.
- Counter: Enter the counter information you want to appear in the selected columsn. You can choose the number of digits, the starting value and the increment value.
- Column Data: You can choose to change the specified case of the text in the column.
6. Once you have made your selections, click Commit.
The changes appear in the bin for the applicable selection.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 Blank Panel The Add Blank Panel option allows you to define layouts and create gray space between other tools.
The Blank Panel is resizable and can be positioned just like any other tool.
To set the Blank Panel:
1. Select File > Settings and click the User tab.
2. Double-click Interface and select the General tab.
3. Access the “Closing a docked tool will replace it with a blank panel.”
- When selected, whenever the last paneled tool is closed in a panel, a blank panel is automatically added. When the tool is made visible again, the blank panel will disappear.
- When deselected, a blank panel is not automatically added when you close a paneled tool.
You can manually add blank panels from the Windows menu and the blank panel stays in place until you explicitly close it. Closing a docked tool allows surrounding tools to fill the space.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 Effect Palette Update The Effect Palette has been updated to allow you to change the font and font size of the Effect Palette window. Simply right click in the window, select Set font and change to the desired font and size. If the Effect Palette is the active window you can select Set Font on the Windows menu.
Select Muted Clips A new feature allows you to select all muted clips in a sequence. Simply select Select->Muted Clips from the Timeline context menu. All muted clips are selected.
Avid Titler+ Changes (cid:129) Titler+ presets: You can override T+ attributes while preserving text When a text layer is selected (in the viewer), you can ALT-Drag and drop an already saved T+ effect from a bin onto the effect icon in the effect editor. This will replace all the properties of the layer (colors, font, shadow etc) while preserving the text.
(cid:129) Color Picker in Titler+ has been normalized like other pickers: click to pick a color, double-click to open the color chooser.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 Interface Settings Update The following have been added to the Interface Settings:
Timecode Window Brightness You can increase or decrease the brightness in the Timecode window. Select File > Settings. Click the User tab and double click Interface. Click the General tab. Use the slider to increase or decrease the brightness.
Timeline & Viewers Brightness Sliders You can increase or decrease the brightness of the metadata in the viewers. Select File > Settings.
Click the User tab and double-click Interface. Click the Timeline & Viewers tab. Use the slider to set the desired brightness.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 Color on Bin Tab Only You can set the Bin background custom color to display on tabs only. When you select Use Bin background color only on tabs, the custom color will appear on the tab, not in the bin behind the text.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 Trim Settings Update A new setting has been added to Trim Settings. The “Sync Rollers at Position In Filler” puts sync rollers at the blue bar in filler just like non-filler. This makes sure markers in filler will stay in sync with other tracks as they are trimmed. This option is defaulted on.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 New ACES Output Transforms Additional ACES Output Transforms are included with this release.
Mask Margin Presets You can select 9x16 and 1:1 presets for Mask Margins and for FrameFlex framing.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 Improved Color Correction Control This release includes improved responsiveness and more granular control when making small Gain value changes in ACES color space.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 Strip Silence You can easily strip silence from your sequence.
To strip silence from the sequence:
1. Load the sequence in the Timeline.
Sample before sequence
2. Select the tracks from which you want to strip silence.
3. Place an IN and OUT mark in the region you want to strip silence or Use Marks to select the
entire region.
4. Right click in the Timeline and select Strip Silence.
New in Media Composer v2020.4
5. Set the desired threshold. Any value below the Threshold setting will be stripped away. You can
also adjust the region around the silence with the Pad Start and Pad End settings. And set the minimum duration to be detected as silence.
6. Click OK.
The silence is stripped from the sequence.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 Sample sequence after strip silence Mapping Buttons at the Bottom of the Timeline You can map buttons at the bottom of the Timeline.
New in Media Composer v2020.4 Product specifications are subject to change without notice and do not represent a commitment on the part of Avid Technology, Inc.
This product is subject to the terms and conditions of a software license agreement provided with the software. The product may only be used in accordance with the license agreement.
This document is protected under copyright law. An authorized licensee of Avid Media Composer may reproduce this publication for the licensee’s own use in learning how to use the software. This document may not be reproduced or distributed, in whole or in part, for commercial purposes, such as selling copies of this document or providing support or educational services to others. This document is supplied as a guide for Avid Media Composer. Reasonable care has been taken in preparing the information it contains. However, this document may contain omissions, technical inaccuracies, or typographical errors. Avid Technology, Inc. does not accept responsibility of any kind for customers’ losses due to the use of this document. Product specifications are subject to change without notice.
The following disclaimer is required by Apple Computer, Inc.:
APPLE COMPUTER, INC. MAKES NO WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THIS PRODUCT, INCLUDING WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO ITS MERCHANTABILITY OR ITS FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES IS NOT PERMITTED BY SOME STATES. THE ABOVE EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. THIS WARRANTY PROVIDES YOU WITH SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS. THERE MAY BE OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU MAY HAVE WHICH VARY FROM STATE TO STATE.
The following disclaimer is required by Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics, Inc. for the use of their TIFF library:
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software [i.e., the TIFF library] and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS-IS” AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
The following disclaimer is required by the Independent JPEG Group:
This software is based in part on the work of the Independent JPEG Group.
This Software may contain components licensed under the following conditions:
Copyright (c) 1989 The Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation, advertising materials, and other materials related to such distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed by the University of California, Berkeley. The name of the University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 by Jef Poskanzer.
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Copyright 1995, Trinity College Computing Center. Written by David Chappell.
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Copyright 1996 Daniel Dardailler.
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of Daniel Dardailler not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission. Daniel Dardailler makes no representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
Modifications Copyright 1999 Matt Koss, under the same license as above.
Copyright (c) 1991 by AT&T.